# Title III Trade


##### Subtitle A—Food for Peace Act

--- Sec. 3101. Transfer of authorities to the Secretary of Agriculture ---
3101.Transfer of authorities to the Secretary of Agriculture (a)In generalSection 201 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721) is amended by striking (to be implemented by the Administrator) and inserting (to be implemented by the Secretary). 
(b)Conforming amendments 
(1)Emergency and private assistance programsSections 202, 203, 205, 207, and 208 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1722, 1723, 1725, 1726a, and 1726b) are each amended by striking Administrator each place it appears and inserting Secretary. (2)Food for developmentTitle III of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1727 et seq.) is amended by striking Administrator each place it appears and inserting Secretary. 
(3)DefinitionsSection 402 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1732) is amended— (A)by striking paragraph (1); and 
(B)by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (9) as paragraphs (1) through (8), respectively. (4)General provisionsSections 403 and 404 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1733 and 1734) are each amended— 
(A)by striking or the Administrator, as appropriate, each place it appears; (B)in section 403(h), by striking or Administrator; and 
(C)in section 404(d), by striking or the Administrator. (5)ConsultationSection 405 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1735) is repealed. 
(c)Transfer of assets and liabilitiesThe Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new title: VIITransfer provisions 701.Transfer of assets and liabilities from USAID to Secretary of AgricultureOn and after the date of the enactment of this title, the assets, liabilities, orders, determinations, permits, grants, loans, contracts, agreements, certificates, and licenses of the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, pursuant to any authority under this Act on or after January 1, 2026, shall be transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture. 
702.Transfer of other authoritiesOn and after the date of the enactment of this title, any authority or responsibility provided by any other provision of law that was or could have been used by the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, prior to such date of enactment to carry out any function, duty, or responsibility under this Act may be exercised by the Secretary of Agriculture. A reference to such Administrator or to such Agency in any provision of law or regulation relating to any authority or responsibility described in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a reference to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Department of Agriculture, respectively. 703.Rules and regulationsBeginning on the date of the enactment of this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall promulgate or amend such rules and regulations (including by issuing or re-issuing interim final rules) as the Secretary may determine appropriate, including by amending such rules and regulations issued by the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development with respect to the authorities and responsibilities provided by this Act and as in effect on the day before such date of enactment, in order to effectuate and complete the transfer of all functions and duties previously carried out by that Administrator to the Secretary. 
704.ConsultationThe Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the Secretary of State from time to time in carrying out the authorities under this Act..

--- Sec. 3102. Food aid quality assurance ---
3102.Food aid quality assuranceSection 202 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1722), as amended by section 3101(b)(1), is further amended— 
(1)in subsection (a), by striking any other provision of law and inserting any other provision of this Act; (2)in subsection (b)(1), by inserting assistance, including in the form of before agricultural commodities; 
(3)in subsection (b)(2)— (A)in subparagraph (A), by striking Agency for International Development and inserting Department of Agriculture; and 
(B)in subparagraph (B), by striking Agency and inserting Department; (4)in subsection (d)— 
(A)in paragraph (1), by striking or at the end; (B)in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; or; and 
(C)by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (3)a nongovernmental organization, as determined by the Secretary.; 
(5)in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (5)Limitation on diversion of fundsOf the funds made available in each fiscal year under this title to the Secretary, not more than 50 percent may be made available for expenses other than the procurement of United States-grown agricultural commodities and ocean transportation of such commodities.; and 
(6)in subsection (h)(3), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3103. Repeal of minimum levels of assistance ---
3103.Repeal of minimum levels of assistanceSection 204 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1724) is repealed.

--- Sec. 3104. Food aid consultative group ---
3104.Food aid consultative groupSection 205 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1725), as amended by section 3101(b)(1), is further amended— (1)in subsection (b)(2), by striking the Under Secretary and all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting the Secretary of State; 
(2)in subsection (b)(3), by striking the Agency for International Development and inserting the Department of Agriculture; (3)in subsection (b)(4), by striking Agency and inserting Secretary; and 
(4)in subsection (f), by striking December 31, 2023 and inserting December 31, 2031.

--- Sec. 3105. Issuance of regulations; oversight, monitoring, and evaluation ---
3105.Issuance of regulations; oversight, monitoring, and evaluationSection 207 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1726a), as amended by section 3101(b)(1), is further amended— 
(1)in subsection (c)(1), by striking the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 and inserting the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026; (2)in subsection (d), by striking , in consultation with the Secretary,; and 
(3)in subsection (f)— (A)in paragraph (1), by striking , in consultation with the Secretary,; and 
(B)in paragraph (4), by striking 2023 each place it appears and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3106. International food relief partnership ---
3106.International food relief partnershipSection 208(f) of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1726b(f)) is amended to read as follows: 
 
(f)Availability of appropriationsIn addition to amounts otherwise made available to carry out this section, of the funds made available in each fiscal year under this title to the Secretary, not less than $15,000,000 shall be made available in each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031 to carry out this section, to remain available until expended..

--- Sec. 3107. Use of commodity credit corporation ---
3107.Use of commodity credit corporationSubsection (b) of section 406 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736) is amended to read as follows: 
 
(b)Included expensesWith respect to commodities made available under titles II and III, the Commodity Credit Corporation may pay all associated and incidental costs of such commodities..

--- Sec. 3108. Pre-positioning of agricultural commodities and annual report regarding food aid programs and activities ---
3108.Pre-positioning of agricultural commodities and annual report regarding food aid programs and activitiesSection 407 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736a) is amended— 
(1)by amending subsection (c)(1) to read as follows: (1)AcquisitionThe Secretary shall transfer, arrange for the transportation, and take other steps necessary to make available agricultural commodities to be provided under title II and title III.; 
(2)in subsection (c)(2), by striking Administrator and inserting Secretary; (3)in subsection (c)(3), by striking Agency for International Development and inserting Secretary; 
(4)in subsection (c)(4)(A), by striking 2023 each place it appears and inserting 2031; (5)in subsection (c)(4), by striking Administrator each place it appears and inserting Secretary; 
(6)in subsection (d), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking or the Administrator, as appropriate,; (7)by amending subsection (f)(1) to read as follows: 
 
(1)Annual reportNot later than April 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report regarding each program and activity carried out under this Act during the prior fiscal year.; (8)in subsection (f)(2)— 
(A)by striking subparagraph (I); (B)by amending subparagraph (H) to read as follows: 
 
(H)A statement of the amount of funds provided to each eligible organization that received assistance under this Act and the manner in which those funds were used, including whether such use was for commodity transportation or administrative costs.; (C)by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (H) (as amended) as subparagraphs (F) through (I), respectively; and 
(D)by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new subparagraph: (E)An assessment of activities specifically targeting women and girls and the impact of those activities in addressing the unique needs of women and girls.; and 
(9)by striking subsection (f)(3).

--- Sec. 3109. Deadline for agreements to finance sales or to provide other assistance ---
3109.Deadline for agreements to finance sales or to provide other assistanceSection 408 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736b) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3110. Minimum level of nonemergency food assistance ---
3110.Minimum level of nonemergency food assistanceSection 412 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736f) is amended— (1)in subsection (e)(1), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; and 
(2)by adding at the end the following new subsection: (f)Minimum levels of funding To address child wasting (1)Minimum levelFor each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031, in addition to amounts otherwise made available, not less than $200,000,000 of the amounts made available to carry out emergency food assistance programs under title II shall be expended for the procurement and distribution of ready-to-use therapeutic foods. 
(2)ApplicabilityThe minimum expenditure requirement under paragraph (1) shall only apply with respect to a fiscal year if— (A)the most recent Joint Child Malnutrition Estimates, published annually by the World Health Organization, the World Bank, and the United Nations Children’s Fund, report a rate of children under 5 years of age affected by child wasting above 5 percent for the year covered by such report; and 
(B)the total amount made available to carry out programs under title II in the fiscal year is greater than $1,200,000,000. (3)Rule of constructionNothing in this subsection may be construed to limit on the authority of the Secretary to purchase or distribute ready-to-use therapeutic foods in a fiscal year..

--- Sec. 3111. Termination date for micronutrient fortification programs ---
3111.Termination date for micronutrient fortification programsSection 415 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C.1736g–2) is amended— (1)in subsection (a)(1)— 
(A)by striking Administrator, in consultation with the; and (B)by striking the comma after Secretary; and 
(2)in subsection (c), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3112. John Ogonowski and Doug Bereuter farmer-to-farmer program ---
3112.John Ogonowski and Doug Bereuter farmer-to-farmer programSection 501 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1737) is amended— 
(1)by striking 2023 each place it appears and inserting 2031; and (2)in subsection (f)(1), by striking Administrator of the Agency for International Development and inserting Secretary.

--- Sec. 3113. Food for Peace Act administration ---
3113.Food for Peace Act administration 
(a)In generalDuring fiscal years 2026 through 2031, the Secretary may use funds made available for the salaries and expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service under an appropriations Act or any other provision of law, including such funds otherwise obligated as of the date of the enactment of this Act, to pay the administrative expenses of the Department of Agriculture in the implementation of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.), as amended by this subtitle. (b)CarryoverFor fiscal years 2026 through 2031, the balance of any funds provided to carry out subsection (a) for a fiscal year that remains unexpended at the end of that fiscal year may be carried over for use during the following fiscal year.


##### Subtitle B—Agricultural Trade Act of 1978

--- Sec. 3201. Agricultural trade promotion and facilitation ---
3201.Agricultural trade promotion and facilitation 
(a)Modification to foreign market development cooperator programSection 203(c) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (4)Technical assistance to improve infrastructure in foreign markets for united states agricultural commodities (A)In generalAs part of the program established under this subsection, the Secretary shall enter into contracts or other agreements, with eligible trade organizations or with nonprofit organizations with expertise in supply chain infrastructure, to provide needs assessments, training, and other technical assistance to enhance the capabilities of infrastructure in new and developing foreign markets, including infrastructure relating to cold chain capacity, port improvements, and other developments, to ensure that United States agricultural commodities are not damaged or lost due to deficiencies of such infrastructure. 
(B)LimitationOf the amounts made available to carry out the program established under this subsection, not more than $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2027 and not more than $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2028 and each fiscal year thereafter may be made available to carry out this paragraph.. (b)Report on competitiveness of united states specialty cropsSection 203(e)(7) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623(e)(7)) is amended to read as follows: 
 
(7)Biennial report 
(A)In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, shall submit every two years to the appropriate congressional committees a report detailing the competitiveness of United States specialty crops. (B)ElementsThe report required by subparagraph (A) shall— 
(i)identify and analyze acts, policies, or practices of foreign countries that constitute significant barriers to, or distortions of, United States exports of specialty crops, including the imposition of— (I)tariffs (including retaliatory tariffs) or quotas (including tariff-rate quotas); and 
(II)nontariff barriers, including technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, import licensing procedures, and subsidies; (ii)identify acts, policies, or practices of foreign countries that enhance the competitiveness of imported specialty crops with domestic specialty crop producers; 
(iii)identify and analyze any differences in applicable food safety regulations of foreign countries that may result in imported specialty crops posing a risk to United States consumers; (iv)make an estimate of the impacts on the competitiveness of United States specialty crops of any act, policy, or practice identified under clauses (i) and (ii); 
(v)assess the extent to which each act, policy, or practice identified under clauses (i) and (ii) are subject to international agreements to which the United States is a party; (vi)include information with respect to any action taken by the executive or legislative branches during the two years preceding submission of the report, or expected to be taken after submission of the report, to eliminate any act, policy, or practice identified under clauses (i) and (ii), including— 
(I)any action under section 301; (II)negotiations or consultations with foreign governments, which may include engagement through the standing committee on sanitary and phytosanitary matters established under a free trade agreement to which the United States is a party; and 
(III)action at the World Trade Organization, including dispute settlement actions, consultations, or negotiations; and (vii)a description of— 
(I)any funds provided under subsection (f)(3)(A)(iv) that were not obligated in the fiscal year preceding submission of the report; and (II)the reason such funds were not obligated. 
(C)Comment periodIn preparing the report required by subparagraph (A), the Secretary, in coordination with the United States Trade Representative, shall seek and consider comments from the public and from the Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Fruits and Vegetables. (D)Form of reportThe report required by subparagraph (A) shall be made available to the public in machine-readable format. 
(E)Appropriate congressional committees definedIn this paragraph, the term appropriate congressional committees means— (i)the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and 
(ii)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.. (c)Modification and extension of fundingSection 203(f) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623(f)) is amended— 
(1)by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows: (2)Funding amountOf the funds of, or an equal value of commodities owned by, the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary shall use to carry out this section the following amounts, to remain available until expended: 
(A)For fiscal year 2026, $255,000,000. (B)For fiscal year 2027, $500,000,000. 
(C)For each of fiscal years 2028 through 2031, $533,000,000.; and (2)in paragraph (3)— 
(A)in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)(i), by striking For each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023, the Secretary and inserting The Secretary; (B)in subparagraph (A)— 
(i)in clause (i), by striking not less than and all that follows through the end and inserting: not less than— 
(I)$200,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; (II)$400,000,000 for fiscal year 2027; and 
(III)$410,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 through 2031.; (ii)in clause (ii), by striking not less than and all that follows through the end and inserting: 
not less than— (I)$34,500,000 for fiscal year 2026; 
(II)$70,500,000 for fiscal year 2027; and (III)$82,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 through 2031.; 
(iii)in clause (iii), by striking not more than and all that follows through the end and inserting: not more than— 
(I)$8,000,000 for each of fiscal year 2026 and 2027; and (II)$16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 through 2031.; 
(iv)in clause (iv), by striking Corporation and all that follows through the end and inserting: Corporation— 
(I)$9,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; and (II)$18,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031.; and 
(v)in clause (v)(I), by striking commodities, and all that follows through the end and inserting commodities, $3,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 and 2027 and $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 through 2031. (d)RepealsThe following provisions of law are repealed: 
(1)Section 718 of title VII of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as enacted by section 101(a) of division A of Public Law 105–277; 7 U.S.C. 5623 note). (2)Section 10602 of Public Law 119–21 (7 U.S.C. 5623a).

--- Sec. 3202. Preserving foreign markets for goods using common names ---
3202.Preserving foreign markets for goods using common names 
(a)DefinitionsSection 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602) is amended— (1)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking As used in this Act— and inserting In this Act:; 
(2)by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (8) as paragraphs (3), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), and (4), respectively, and reordering such paragraphs in numerical sequence; (3)by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
 
(2)Common name 
(A)In generalThe term common name means a name that, as determined by the Secretary— (i)is ordinarily or customarily used for an agricultural commodity or food product; 
(ii)is typically placed on the packaging and product label of the agricultural commodity or food product; (iii)with respect to wine— 
(I)is— (aa)ordinarily or customarily used for a wine grape varietal name; or 
(bb)a traditional term or expression that is typically placed on the packaging and label of the wine; and (II)does not mean any appellation of origin for wine listed in subpart C of part 9 of title 27, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations); and 
(iv)the use of which is consistent with standards of the Codex Alimentarius Commission. (B)ExamplesThe following names, among others, shall be considered as common names as such term is defined for purposes of carrying out subparagraph (A): 
(i)With respect to food products: american, asiago, basmati, black forest ham, blue, blue vein, bologna, bologne, bratwurst, brie, burrata, camembert, capicola and capocollo, cheddar, chevre, chorizo, colby, cottage cheese, coulommiers, cream cheese, danbo, edam, emmental, feta, fontina, gorgonzola, gouda, grana, gruyere, havarti, kielbasa, limburger and limburgo, mascarpone, monterey jack, mortadella, munster and muenster, neufchatel, parmesan, pancetta, pecorino, pepper jack, prosciutto, provolone, ricotta, romano, saint-paulin, salame, salami, samso, and swiss, tilsiter, and tomme. (ii)With respect to wine: 
(I)The list of grape varietal terms in section 4.91 of title 27, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation). (II)The grape variety designations administratively approved by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. 
(III)The following nonvarietal descriptors: chateau, classic, clos, cream, crusted and crusting, noble, ruby, sur lie, tawny, vintage, and vintage character. (iii)With respect to beer: bitter, pale ale, india pale ale, mild, porter, stout, barleywine, dubbel, quadrupel, witbier, saison, biere de garde, oud red, altbier, weisse, gose, hefeweizen, dunkel, helles, rauchbier, pilsener, maerzen, schwarzbier, doppelbock, bock, kellerbier, munchener and munich style, oktoberfest, dortmunder, kolsch and koelsch, cream, grodziskie, lager. 
(C)ConsiderationsIn making a determination under subparagraph (A), the Secretary may take into account— (i)competent sources, such as dictionaries, newspapers, professional journals and literature, and information posted on websites that are determined by the Secretary to be reliable in reporting market information; 
(ii)the use of the common name in a domestic, regional, or international product standard, including a standard promulgated by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, for the agricultural commodity or food product; and (iii)the ordinary and customary use of the common name in the production or marketing of the agricultural commodity or food product in the United States or in other countries. 
(D)Rule of constructionThe enumeration of certain names under subparagraph (B) may not be construed to limit or restrict the ability of the Secretary to determine, consistent with subparagraph (A), that any other name is a common name for purposes of this section.; and (4)in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (7) (as so redesignated)— 
(A)in clause (v), by striking ; or at the end and inserting a semicolon; (B)in clause (vi), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; or; and 
(C)by adding at the end the following: (vii)prohibits or disallows the use of a name determined or considered to be a common name pursuant to paragraph (2).. 
(b)Negotiations To defend use of common namesTitle III of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5652 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 303.Negotiations to defend the use of common names (a)In generalThe Secretary shall coordinate efforts with the United States Trade Representative to secure the right of United States agricultural producers, processors, and exporters to use common names for agricultural commodities or food products in foreign markets through the negotiation of bilateral, plurilateral, or multilateral agreements, memoranda of understanding, or exchanges of letters that assure the current and future use of each common name identified by the Secretary in connection with United States agricultural commodities or food products. 
(b)BriefingThe Secretary and the United States Trade Representative shall jointly provide to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate, a briefing, twice annually, on efforts and successes in carrying out subsection (a)..

--- Sec. 3203. Interagency seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetable working group ---
3203.Interagency seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetable working groupSubtitle B of title IV of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5671 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
418.Interagency seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables working group 
(a)In generalThe Secretary (acting through the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs), the United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other Federal agencies or entities as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary, shall jointly establish an interagency working group (referred to in this section as the working group) composed of representatives from each agency to monitor and assess, on an ongoing basis, seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables trade data and related information. (b)ConsultationThe working group shall consult with the Agricultural Trade Advisory Committee, relevant seasonal or perishable agricultural producers, and other relevant trade associations to identify threats that imports pose to domestic producers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables. 
(c)Trade actions and investigationsThe working group shall coordinate as appropriate regarding potential additional trade actions and investigations with respect to any seasonal or perishable fruits and vegetables, as determined to be advisable by the working group. (d)Recommendations to the secretaryThe working group shall recommend programs or assistance that the Secretary could provide to producers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables to address market impacts..


##### Subtitle C—Other Agricultural Trade Laws

--- Sec. 3301. Growing American food exports ---
3301.Growing American food exportsSection 1543A of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5679) is amended in subsection (d), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3302. Food for Progress Act of 1985 ---
3302.Food for Progress Act of 1985Section 1110 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (commonly referred to as the Food for Progress Act of 1985; 7 U.S.C. 1736o) is amended— 
(1)in subsection (c)— (A)by striking enter into and inserting annually enter into two or more; and 
(B)by inserting two or more before eligible entities; (2)in subsection (f)(3), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; 
(3)in subsection (g), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; (4)in subsection (k), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; 
(5)in subsection (l)— (A)in paragraph (1), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; and 
(B)in the heading of paragraph (4), by striking Humanitarian or development and inserting Development ; (6)in subsection (m)(2), by striking humanitarian and; and 
(7)in subsection (n)(2)(C), by striking Committee on International Relations and inserting Committee on Foreign Affairs.

--- Sec. 3303. Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act ---
3303.Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust ActSection 302 of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act (7 U.S.C. 1736f–1) is amended— 
(1)in subsection (b)(2)(B)(i), by striking 2023 each place it appears and inserting 2031; (2)in subsection (c)(1)(C), by striking the Administrator and inserting the Secretary; 
(3)by striking subsection (c)(1)(D); (4)in subsection (f)(2)(A), by inserting by the Secretary after reimbursed; and 
(5)in subsection (h), (A)in paragraph (1), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; and 
(B)in paragraph (2), by striking 2026 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3304. Promotion of agricultural exports to emerging markets ---
3304.Promotion of agricultural exports to emerging marketsSection 1542(a) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5622 note; Public Law 101–624) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3305. International agricultural education fellowship program ---
3305.International agricultural education fellowship programSection 3307 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 3295) is amended— (1)in subsection (g)(1), by striking 2019 through 2023 and inserting 2027 through 2031; 
(2)by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and (3)by inserting after subsection (f) the following: 
 
(g)Program continuityTo assist eligible countries in the long-term development of enduring, school-based agricultural education and youth extension programs, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable— (1)implement the fellowship program in each participating host country for not fewer than 3 consecutive years; and 
(2)ensure that contracts awarded to outside organizations are multiyear..

--- Sec. 3306. International agriculture cultural immersion and exchange program ---
3306.International agriculture cultural immersion and exchange programTitle III of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–334) is amended by adding at the end the following new section (and by conforming the table of contents in section 1(b) accordingly): 
 
3313.International agriculture cultural immersion and exchange program 
(a)DefinitionIn this section: (1)Eligible candidateThe term eligible candidate means an individual that— 
(A)is between the ages of 19 and 30 years; (B)has demonstrated experience in agricultural sciences, food systems, and food and nutrition education; 
(C)is prepared to live in 1 or more host countries for at least 2 months or up to 6 months; and (D)is a resident of the United States. 
(2)Eligible countryThe term eligible country means a country that has agricultural trade relations with the United States, as recognized by the Foreign Agriculture Service. (3)ProgramThe term Program means the International Agriculture Cultural Immersion and Exchange Program established under subsection (b). 
(4)SecretaryThe term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture. (b)EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish an international cultural immersion and exchange program, to be known as the International Agriculture Cultural Immersion and Exchange Program, under which the Secretary shall— 
(1)provide eligible candidates with international cultural exchange and immersion experiences focused on agricultural sciences, food systems, and food and nutrition education through placement with host families in eligible countries; and (2)place in the United States with host families individuals that meet the requirement of subsection (a)(1)(A) and are residents of eligible countries to experience United States agriculture, trade relations, and culture. 
(c)PurposesThe purposes of the Program are— (1)to develop globally minded citizens of the United States; and 
(2)to strengthen and enhance trade between eligible countries and the United States in agricultural, food, nutrition, and environmental industries. (d)Cooperative agreement (1)In generalTo administer the Program, the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative agreement with a nonprofit organization that has experience in implementing international cultural exchange programs focused on agricultural sciences, food and nutrition education, and cultural understanding through placement with host families. 
(2)PriorityIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to a nonprofit organization with which the Secretary has a memorandum of understanding dated not earlier than January 1, 2019. (3)Matching fundsAs a condition of entering into a cooperative agreement under this subsection, a nonprofit organization shall provide equal matching funds from non-Federal sources. 
(e)Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031 to carry out this section..

--- Sec. 3307. International food security technical assistance ---
3307.International food security technical assistanceSection 1543B(f) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3308. McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program ---
3308.McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition ProgramSection 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o–1) is amended— (1)in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii), by inserting or lower middle before income; 
(2)in subsection (h)(2), by striking Committee on International Relations and inserting Committee on Foreign Affairs; (3)in subsection (l)(2), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; and 
(4)in subsection (l)(4), by striking not more than 10 percent and inserting not less than 8 percent, but not more than 15 percent.

--- Sec. 3309. Global crop diversity trust ---
3309.Global crop diversity trustSection 3202 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2220a note; Public Law 110–246) is amended— 
(1)by amending subsection (b)(1) to read as follows: (1)In generalFor the period of fiscal years 2027 through 2031, the aggregate contributions of funds of the Federal Government provided to the Trust under this section shall not exceed 33 percent of the total amount of funds contributed to the Trust from all sources and for all purposes.; 
(2)in subsection (b)(2)— (A)by inserting under this section after Trust; and 
(B)by striking 2023 and inserting 2031; and (3)in subsection (c), by striking fiscal years 2014 through 2023 and inserting fiscal years 2023 through 2031.

--- Sec. 3310. Local and regional food aid procurement projects ---
3310.Local and regional food aid procurement projectsSection 3206(e)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 1726c(e)(1)) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 3311. Agricultural trade enforcement task force ---
3311.Agricultural trade enforcement task force (a)EstablishmentNot later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall establish a joint task force, to be known as the Agricultural Trade Enforcement Task Force (referred to in this section as the Task Force). 
(b)Duties 
(1)In generalThe Task Force shall— (A)identify trade barriers to United States agricultural exports that are vulnerable to dispute settlement under the World Trade Organization (WTO) or other trade agreements; 
(B)develop and implement a strategy for enforcing violations of trade agreements related to these trade barriers; (C)identify like-minded trading partners for specific trade barriers that could act as co-complainants or primary complainants on disputes that are systemically or economically important to the United States; and 
(D)report quarterly to Congress on progress toward resolving cases or filing disputes. (2)ConsultationIn carrying out its duties under this subsection, the Task Force shall regularly consult, to the extent necessary and appropriate, with the following: 
(A)Relevant stakeholders in the private sector, including the agricultural trade advisory committees. (B)Federal departments and agencies that are not represented on the Task Force. 
(C)Like-minded trading partners that are similarly concerned with trade barriers and are potential participants in the dispute settlement process. (c)Membership (1)In generalThe Task Force shall be comprised of the following members: 
(A)One or more employees of the Foreign Agricultural Service, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs. (B)One of more employees of the Office of the United States Trade Representative, who shall be appointed jointly by the General Counsel for the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the Chief Agricultural Negotiator. 
(C)One or more employees of other Federal agencies as needed, who shall be appointed jointly by the officials specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B). (2)QualificationEmployees of the Federal agencies specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) may be appointed as members of the Task Force only if such employees have appropriate expertise in agricultural trade policy and trade enforcement. 
(d)Report 
(1)In generalNot later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and on a quarterly basis thereafter, the Task Force shall submit to Congress a report on its progress in identifying and addressing trade barriers to United States agricultural exports. (2)Matters to be includedThe report required by this subsection shall include the following: 
(A)A description of the systemic and economically significant trade barriers that have been identified. (B)A justification for including the identified trade barriers. 
(C)A description of the progress that has been made in developing dispute settlement cases and further information that is required. (D)The current status of ongoing disputes at the WTO and implementation of panel, arbitration, or appellate body decisions. 
(3)Additional matters to be included in initial reportThe initial report required by this subsection shall, in addition to the matters described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of paragraph (2), include a plan to file a request under the WTO dispute settlement process for consultations to address India’s minimum price supports. The plan shall include— (A)an identification of like-minded trading partners that could act as co-complainants or primary complainants with respect to the request; 
(B)a description of specific claims the United States intends to make with respect to the request; and (C)a timeline to— 
(i)request consultations; and (ii)request the establishment of a panel not later than 60 days after the date of the request for consultations if India does not provide assurances that it will address its minimum price supports. 
(e)Congressional briefingsThe United States Trade Representative and the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide briefings on the Task Force to appropriate Members of Congress and congressional staff.

--- Sec. 3312. Report on international shrimp trade ---
3312.Report on international shrimp trade (a)Report requiredNot later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that examines policy options available to the Secretary of Agriculture to boost the competitiveness of domestic shrimp in global and domestic markets. 
(b)ContentsThe report required by subsection (a) shall— (1)include an analysis of— 
(A)the Secretary’s authority with regard to shrimp and other seafood products; (B)domestic shrimp and other seafood producers’ access to financial support programs; and 
(C)ways to facilitate interagency coordination under existing authorities around common goals for shrimp and other seafood commodities with respect to tariffs, market access policies, and other nontariff barriers; and (2)identify trade or other legal barriers to United States shrimp and seafood production that are vulnerable to dispute settlement through the World Trade Organization or otherwise under bilateral or multilateral trade agreements. 
(c)Appropriate congressional committeesIn this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means— (1)the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and 
(2)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.


##### Subtitle D—Other Trade Matters

--- Sec. 3401. Report on modifications to USMCA ---
3401.Report on modifications to USMCA (a)Report requiredThe Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination with the United States Trade Representative, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and concurrently make publicly available, prior to July 1, 2026, a report on how any expected or implemented modification or revocation of any part of the USMCA (as such term is defined in section 3 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 4502(9))) in any manner will affect the importation or exportation of any article that is a covered agricultural commodity, including— 
(1)the anticipated effects on relevant product prices and projections as a result of such revocation or modification, including— (A)the short- and long-term impacts on domestic pricing; 
(B)changes in consumer food prices; (C)expected or anticipated shifts in input costs for domestic producers; and 
(D)regional or sector-specific variations in pricing impacts; and (2)the forecasted shifts in farm revenue and profitability for domestic farmers, foresters, ranchers, and other producers as a result of such revocation or modification, including— 
(A)impacts on net farm income and debt-to-asset ratios; (B)sector-specific effects on crops, livestock, and specialty crops; 
(C)effects on small, medium, and large farm operations; (D)impacts on agricultural exports, market access, and global competitiveness; and 
(E)estimated effects on rural employment and economies. (b)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)Appropriate congressional committeesThe term appropriate congressional committees means— (A)the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and 
(B)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. (2)Covered agricultural commodityThe term covered agricultural commodity has the meaning given the term agricultural commodity under section 102(1) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602(1)).

--- Sec. 3402. Sense of Congress and report on Argentine beef imports ---
3402.Sense of Congress and report on Argentine beef imports 
(a)Sense of CongressIt is the sense of Congress as follows: (1)Congress finds that United States ranchers and cattle producers produce the healthiest and highest quality beef on the planet. 
(2)Any official trade agreement between the United States and Argentina—including the United States of America—Argentine Republic Agreement on Reciprocal Trade and Investment—that allow Argentina to export ship fresh and frozen beef into the United States market under expanded quotas is detrimental to domestic ranchers, cattle producers, and cattle markets. (3)Congress recognizes that many Americans enjoy eating beef and recognizes that many Americans want their beef raised domestically. 
(4)Congress further concludes that any agreement to allow increased beef from Argentina into United States markets introduces unfair competition into an already volatile market as this imported beef could depress cattle prices at United States sale barns and have a ripple effect throughout the domestic economy affecting feed suppliers, equipment dealers, veterinarians, and other rural businesses. (5)Congress additionally concludes that United States beef production is the safest in the world and that inconsistent enforcement abroad could put American consumers at risk and create an uneven regulatory playing field. 
(b)Report 
(1)In generalNot later than 180 days after the date on which the United States signs any formal trade agreement with Argentina that includes a change to the tariff rate quotas or other duties on fresh and frozen beef imported from Argentina the Secretary of Agriculture and the United States Trade Representative shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the effect of such imported beef on domestic beef and cattle markets, including— (A)American consumer sentiment about the quality of beef in the United States; 
(B)impacts on domestic cattle prices; (C)effects on domestic beef prices; 
(D)changes to the domestic cattle herd size; and (E)rancher sentiments toward expanding their herds. 
(2)Appropriate congressional committees definedIn this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means— (A)the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and 
(B)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
