# Title XI Crop Insurance

--- Sec. 11001. Specialty Crop Advisory Committee ---
11001.Specialty Crop Advisory Committee 
(a)In generalSection 505 of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1505) is amended— (1)in subsection (a)— 
(A)in paragraph (2)— (i)by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; 
(ii)by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following: (E)The Chairperson of the Specialty Crop Advisory Committee established by subsection (f).; and 
(iii)in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated, by striking specialty crop and inserting livestock; (B)in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) of paragraph (2) and inserting subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H) of paragraph (2) and the members of the Specialty Crop Advisory Committee described in subsection (f)(2); and 
(2)by adding at the end the following: (f)Specialty crop advisory committee (1)In generalNot later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall— 
(A)establish a Specialty Crop Advisory Committee (in this subsection referred to as the Committee); and (B)appoint to the Committee in accordance with paragraph (2) the initial members that will assist the Corporation in the research, creation, and improvement of policies or plans of insurance for specialty crops. 
(2)Composition 
(A)ChairpersonThe Chairperson of the Committee shall be an individual with experience in crop insurance and the unique nature of the specialty crop industry. (B)MembersThe Committee shall consist of— 
(i)individuals with an understanding of the production methods, markets, and risks (including losses due to weather, trade damages, and supply chain disruptions) unique to specialty crop production; (ii)not less than 5 producers and not more than 10 total members; and 
(iii)not less than 1 producer from each of the West, Midwest, South, and Northeast regions of the United States (as identified by the Bureau of the Census). (3)DutiesThe Committee established by this subsection shall— 
(A)advise the Manager of the Corporation on issues relating to specialty crop insurance policies; (B)provide input, through the Chairperson of the Committee, to the Board on decisions relating to specialty crop insurance policies; 
(C)review available educational programs and make recommendations to the Manager of the Corporation on how to enhance the effectiveness of such programs for specialty crop producers; (D)provide recommendations to the Manager of the Corporation regarding the presentation of policies to the Board required by section 508(a)(6); 
(E)advise the Manager of the Corporation on entering into partnerships to carry out subsections (d) and (e)(2)(B) of section 522; and (F)meet not less than 2 times each year to carry out these duties.. 
(b)Specialty crops coordinatorSection 507(g)(2) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1507(g)(2)) is amended to read as follows: (2)Responsibilities (A)In generalThe Specialty Crops Coordinator shall have primary responsibility for addressing the needs of specialty crop producers, and for providing information and advice, in connection with the activities of the Corporation to improve and expand the insurance program for specialty crops. 
(B)Other dutiesIn carrying out this paragraph, the Specialty Crops Coordinator shall— (i)act as the liaison of the Corporation with representatives of specialty crop producers and the Specialty Crop Advisory Committee; and 
(ii)assist the Corporation with the knowledge, expertise, and familiarity of the producers with risk management and production issues pertaining to specialty crops.. (c)Annual review of new and specialty cropsSection 508(a)(6)(A) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(a)(6)(A)) is amended by inserting (in consultation with the Specialty Crop Advisory Committee) after Corporation.

--- Sec. 11002. Identification of holders of substantial interests ---
11002.Identification of holders of substantial interestsSection 506(m) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1506(m)) is amended— (1)by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows: 
 
(3)Identification of holders of substantial interests 
(A)In generalThe Manager of the Corporation may require each policyholder to provide to the Manager, at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the Manager, the name of each individual or other entity that acquires or holds a substantial beneficial interest in such policyholder. (B)Extension available (i)In generalIn the case of a policyholder that does not provide the information required pursuant to subparagraph (A) to the Manager at the time prescribed by the Manager, the Manager shall allow such policyholder to provide to the Manager such information at any time during the applicable crop year. 
(ii)ExceptionClause (i) shall not apply to a policyholder that an approved insurance provider determines— (I)would receive disproportionate benefits under a crop insurance program as a result of failing to provide the information required pursuant to subparagraph (A) to the Manager at the time prescribed by the Manager; or 
(II)failed to provide such information to avoid an obligation or requirement under any State or Federal law.; and (2)in paragraph (4), by striking 5 percent and inserting 10 percent.

--- Sec. 11003. Actuarial soundness of certain new products ---
11003.Actuarial soundness of certain new productsSection 506(n) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1506(n)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (4)Actuarial soundness of certain new productsThe Corporation shall— 
(A)review each policy or product developed under section 508(h) periodically for actuarial soundness; and (B)take such actions, in consultation with persons described in paragraph (1)(A) of such section, as are necessary to improve the actuarial soundness of such policies and products..

--- Sec. 11004. Coverage of revenue losses ---
11004.Coverage of revenue lossesSection 508(a)(1) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(a)(1)) is amended, in the second sentence, by inserting or a decline in the market price of the insured commodity, so long as such decline was not directly caused by the producer (as determined by the Secretary) before the period at the end.

--- Sec. 11005. Limitation on farm program participation ---
11005.Limitation on farm program participation (a)In generalThe Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended— 
(1)in section 508(c)(4)(C)(iv) in the heading, by striking crops and; and (2)in section 508B(f), by striking Effective beginning with the 2019 crop year and inserting Effective for the 2019 through 2025 crop years. 
(b)Conforming amendmentSection 1115 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9015) is amended by adding at the end the following: (j)LimitationBeginning with the 2026 crop year, in the case of a farm for which a producer obtains coverage under the Stacked Income Protection Plan for upland cotton under section 508B of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508b) for a crop year, such farm shall not be eligible to receive payments for seed cotton for such crop year under— 
(1)price loss coverage under section 1116; or (2)agriculture risk coverage under section 1117..

--- Sec. 11006. Limitation on interest accrual ---
11006.Limitation on interest accrualSection 508(d) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(d)) is amended by inserting at the end the following new paragraph: (5)Limitation on interest accrualEffective beginning with the 2026 reinsurance year, in the case of a producer that is delinquent in paying a premium or administrative fee, an approved insurance provider may charge such producer with respect to such delinquency an amount less than or equal to 1 percent of the simple interest of the amount for which such producer is delinquent, for each month (not to exceed 60 consecutive months) the producer is so delinquent..

--- Sec. 11007. Crop insurance support for beginning and veteran farmers and ranchers ---
11007.Crop insurance support for beginning and veteran farmers and ranchers 
(a)Definition of veteran farmer or rancherSection 502(b)(14)(B) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1502(b)(14)(B)) is amended— (1)in clause (ii), by striking 5 years and inserting 10 years; and 
(2)in clause (iii), by striking 5-year and inserting 10-year. (b)Increase in assistanceSection 508(e)(9) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(e)) is amended by inserting or veteran farmer or rancher after beginning farmer or rancher each place it appears.

--- Sec. 11008. Marketability ---
11008.MarketabilitySection 508(h)(4) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(h)(4)) is amended— (1)in subparagraph (A), by amending clause (iii) to read as follows: 
 
(iii)Application 
(I)In generalExcept as provided in subclause (II), this subparagraph shall apply with respect to a proposal only during the period preceding any approval of the proposal by the Board. (II)ExceptionAn approved insurance provider that submits a letter of support for a concept proposal, a policy, or plan of insurance shall— 
(aa)not be considered the public for purposes of clause (ii); (bb)have access to data and other product development information submitted to the Board during its review under this subsection; and 
(cc)be subject to the confidentiality requirements as applicable to the Board pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii).; (2)in subparagraph (D), by adding at the end the following: 
 
(iv)Marketability deadlineAny new policy, plan of insurance, or other material approved by the Board under this subsection during a reinsurance year and after the Standard Reinsurance Agreement closing date of July 1 shall not be implemented for such reinsurance year unless at least 90 days prior to the sales closing date for such policy, plan of insurance, or other material, the Board makes available to the approved insurance providers all necessary, as determined by the Board, handbooks, training materials, and other resources associated with such policy, plan of insurance, or other material.; and (3)by adding at the end the following: 
 
(F)Marketability determination 
(i)Submission to the boardPrior to the approval of a product, any approved insurance provider that submitted a letter of support for the product shall provide information and analysis to the Board on the marketability of such product. (ii)Deemed marketableIn reviewing a policy, plan of insurance, or other material submitted to the Board under this subsection, such product shall be deemed marketable in accordance with paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I) if at least one approved insurance provider, in its submission pursuant to clause (i), expresses support for such policy, plan, or material. 
(iii)Evaluation by the boardIn evaluating whether a product is marketable in accordance with paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I), the Board shall take into consideration any information and analysis submitted pursuant to clause (ii). (iv)AIP participationThe Board shall not require the submission of a letter of support from an approved insurance provider in order to review and approve any policy, plan of insurance, or other material submitted pursuant to this subsection..

--- Sec. 11009. Reimbursement rates for administrative and operating costs ---
11009.Reimbursement rates for administrative and operating costsSection 508(k)(4) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(k)(4)) is amended— (1)in subparagraph (A)— 
(A)in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking not exceed; (B)in clause (i)— 
(i)by inserting not exceed before for the; and (ii)by striking and after the semicolon; 
(C)in clause (ii)— (i)by striking and subsequent and inserting through 2026; 
(ii)by inserting not exceed before for each; and (iii)by striking the period and inserting ; and; and 
(D)by adding at the end the following: (iii)for each of the 2027 and subsequent reinsurance years, be determined in accordance with subparagraph (F). ; and 
(2)by amending subparagraph (F) to read as follows: (F)Reimbursement rates for reinsurance year 2027 and subsequent reinsurance yearsNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (E), for each of the 2027 and subsequent reinsurance years, the rate established by the Board to reimburse approved insurance providers and agents for the administrative and operating costs of the providers and agents with respect to each policy made available under this Act shall be equal to the rate applicable to the policy in effect for the 2026 reinsurance year. .

--- Sec. 11010. Quality loss adjustment coverage ---
11010.Quality loss adjustment coverageSection 508(m)(3) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(m)(3)) is amended— (1)by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following: 
 
(A)Periodic reviewBeginning in calendar year 2027 and once every 5 years thereafter, the Corporation shall contract with a qualified person to conduct a review, which shall be completed within 1 year of initiation, of the quality loss adjustment procedures of the Corporation.; (2)in subparagraph (B), by striking Effective beginning not later than the 2004 reinsurance year, based on the review, the Corporation and inserting Based on each review conducted under subparagraph (A), the Corporation; 
(3)by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); (4)by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following: 
 
(B)Stakeholder engagementEach review under subparagraph (A) shall include engagement from regionally diverse industry stakeholders for each agricultural commodity for which a quality loss adjustment is offered.; and (5)by adding at the end the following: 
 
(D)ReportOn the completion of each review under subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives a report that describes— (i)the findings from that review; 
(ii)the changes to the quality loss adjustment procedures; (iii)the stakeholder engagement for that review conducted pursuant to subparagraph (B); and 
(iv)plans for establishing specific quality loss adjustment procedures for unique regions, as determined by the Secretary..

--- Sec. 11011. Pilot program to review effectiveness of coverage penalty ---
11011.Pilot program to review effectiveness of coverage penaltyThe Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is further amended by inserting after section 508D the following: 
 
508E.Pilot program to review effectiveness of coverage penalty 
(a)In generalEffective beginning with the 2027 crop year, the Risk Management Agency and the Corporation shall establish a pilot program to evaluate the effectiveness of the reduction in benefits applied to corn and other crops, as determined by the Corporation, planted during the late planting period (as defined in section 457.8 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulation)). (b)Location and duration of pilotThe pilot program established under subsection (a) shall— 
(1)be conducted in not less than 10 counties located within or adjacent to the North Plains Groundwater Conservation District or the Panhandle Groundwater Conservation District in the State of Texas; and (2)operate for a period of not less than 4 crop years. 
(c)EvaluationIn carrying out the pilot program established under subsection (a), the Risk Management Agency and the Corporation shall— (1)suspend any reduction to the insurance guarantee applied to an insurance policy for a crop that is planted during the late planting period; 
(2)gather and analyze data to determine if the number of days beyond the final plant date in which a crop was planted during the late planting period correlates with a decrease in crop yields; and (3)determine if planting a crop after the final plant date results in reduced usage of irrigation from the Ogallala Aquifer. 
(d)Report requiredNot later than 90 days after the last day of crop year 2031, the Risk Management Agency and the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, and Nutrition of the Senate a report that includes— (1)a summary of the results of the pilot program established under subsection (a); 
(2)an analysis of the correlation between planting date and final yields; and (3)any changes to existing policies that the Corporation intends to make as a result of the information obtained during the pilot program. 
(e)PartnershipsOf the amounts made available in section 522(e)(2)(A)(ii), the Corporation may use not more than $200,000 to enter into a partnership or cooperative agreement with a nonprofit organization, State agency, or public university that is familiar with agricultural production in the region described in subsection (b)(1) to conduct the research and evaluation required under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (c)..

--- Sec. 11012. Whole farm improvements ---
11012.Whole farm improvementsSection 522(c)(7)(E) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)(7)(E)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(iii)Additional reviewNot later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this clause and annually thereafter, the Corporation shall— (I)review any limitations on insurable revenue (including the overall limitation and limitations specific to animals, animal products, greenhouse and nursery, and aquaculture) to ensure such limitations are adequate to cover the financial risks associated with the production of high-value agricultural products; and 
(II)submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes a summary of the most recent review conducted and any expected changes to the policy for the following reinsurance year..

--- Sec. 11013. Program compliance and integrity ---
11013.Program compliance and integrity (a)In GeneralSection 515(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1515(b)) is amended— 
(1)in the subsection heading, by inserting , response, and final determination after Notification; (2)in paragraph (1), by striking shall notify in writing and inserting shall, through an initial finding in writing, notify (unless such notification is pursuant to the responsibilities to conduct reviews and make corrections); 
(3)in paragraph (2)— (A)in the heading, by striking Time for notification and inserting Required timing; 
(B)by striking Notice and inserting the following: (A)Initial findingNotice; and 
(C)by adding at the end the following: (B)ResponseDuring the 90-day period beginning on the date the Corporation notifies an approved insurance provider through an initial finding under paragraph (1), such approved insurance provider may appeal such initial finding in writing. 
(C)Final findingNot later than 90 days after the date on which an approved insurance provider appeals pursuant to subparagraph (B), the Corporation shall issue a final finding in writing to such approved insurance provider. (D)Request for final administrative determinationAn approved insurance provider shall have not more than 90 days after the receipt of the Corporation’s final finding under subparagraph (C) to request, in writing, a final administrative determination, if such approved insurance provider has reason to believe that the Corporation’s final finding under subparagraph (C) is not in accordance with— 
(i)the applicable laws, regulations, custom, or practice of the crop insurance industry; or (ii)the approved policy and procedure of the Corporation. 
(E)Final determinationThe Corporation shall have not more than 90 days after the receipt of a request for a final administrative determination under subparagraph (D) to provide such final administrative determination, unless substantial new information, as determined by the Corporation, is provided by the approved insurance provider. (F)Appeal to Civilian Board of Contract AppealsAn approved insurance provider shall have not more than 90 days after receipt of a final administrative determination provided pursuant to subparagraph (E) to appeal such determination to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals.; and 
(4)by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows: (3)Effect of failure to timely notify (A)In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements under paragraph (2) shall relieve the approved insurance provider from the debt owed to the Corporation. 
(B)ExceptionSubparagraph (A) shall not apply to any matters referred to the Office of the Inspector General or the Department of Justice.. (b)Procedures for responding to certain inquiriesSection 506(r)(1) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1506(r)(1)) is amended by inserting binding before final agency determination.

--- Sec. 11014. Research and development priorities ---
11014.Research and development priorities 
(a)Expansion of revenue policiesSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (20)Expansion of revenue policies (A)In generalThe Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, to expand the availability of policies that provide coverage against losses of revenue for— 
(i)oilseeds, including camelina, carinata, and pennycress; (ii)alfalfa; 
(iii)pulse crops (including dry edible beans); (iv)sugarbeets; 
(v)sugarcane; (vi)blueberries; and 
(vii)other crops for which only individual yield-based insurance policies are available. (B)Availability of policyNotwithstanding the last sentence of section 508(a)(1), and section 508(a)(2), the Corporation shall make a policy described in subparagraph (A) available if the requirements of section 508(h) are met. 
(C)Determination of projected priceIn developing a policy described in subparagraph (A), the Corporation may utilize alternative methods of determining a projected price for a crop, including the correlation of actual prices received for such crop to the futures markets prices of other commodities. (D)Pricing libraryIn developing a policy described in subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall determine the feasibility of creating a pricing library for agents and approved insurance providers using data from alternative sources, as determined by the Secretary. 
(E)Discount factorFor purposes of developing a policy described in subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall determine the feasibility of— (i)establishing a State or regional discount factor as an endorsement policy to provide coverage against losses of revenue due to quality discounts in soybeans; and 
(ii)an alternative to applying the term zero-market value in the case of an available salvage market. (F)ReportNot later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes— 
(i)the crops for which research and development has been carried out under subparagraph (A); (ii)the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (A); 
(iii)any recommendations with respect to those results; and (iv)additional crops for which research and development under this paragraph is planned to be carried out.. 
(b)Wine grape losses due to smoke exposureSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: (21)Wine grape losses due to smoke exposure (A)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding a policy to insure wine grapes (including wine grapes produced in the States of California, Oregon, and Washington) against losses due to wildfire smoke exposure. 
(B)Availability of policyNotwithstanding the last sentence of section 508(a)(1), and section 508(a)(2), not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall make available a policy described in subparagraph (A) if the requirements of section 508(h) are met. (C)ReportNot later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes— 
(i)the results of the research carried out under subparagraph (A); (ii)a description of the policies made available under this paragraph; and 
(iii)the feasibility of a product that allows producers of wine grapes to claim an indemnity through post-harvest, post-vinification testing, if such testing demonstrates smoke damage that was not detectable prior to harvest.. (c)MushroomsSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(22)Mushrooms 
(A)In generalThe Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding a policy to insure— (i)the production of mushroom growing media; and 
(ii)the production of mushrooms. (B)Availability of policyNotwithstanding the second sentence of section 508(a)(1), and section 508(a)(2), the Corporation shall make a policy described in subparagraph (A) available if the requirements of section 508(h) are met. 
(C)Research and developmentResearch and development described in subparagraph (A) shall evaluate the effectiveness of policies described in that subparagraph, including policies that— (i)are based on the risk of— 
(I)pests, including mushroom phorid flies and sciarid flies; (II)fungal pathogens; and 
(III)viral pathogens; (ii)consider other causes of loss applicable to mushroom compost and mushroom production, such as— 
(I)loss of electricity due to weather; and (II)loss of growing media due to excessive 5-year, 10-year, or 20-year rainfall events; 
(iii)consider appropriate best practices to minimize the risk of loss; (iv)consider whether to provide coverage for mushrooms under 1 policy or to provide coverage for various phases of production; 
(v)have streamlined reporting and paperwork requirements that take into account short propagation schedules, variable crop years, and the variety of mushrooms that may be produced in a single facility; and (vi)provide protection for revenue losses. 
(D)ReportNot later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes— (i)the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (A); and 
(ii)any recommendations with respect to those results.. (d)Study on hurricane insuranceSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(23)Standalone policy for hurricanes and tropical storms 
(A)In generalThe Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of offering insurance against tropical storms and hurricanes made available regardless of an underlying crop insurance policy (or lack thereof). (B)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes the results of the study conducted under subparagraph (A).. 
(e)Frost or cold weather insuranceSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: (24)Frost or cold weather insurance (A)In generalThe Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding an index-based policy to insure crops (including table grapes, wine grapes, juice grapes, tomatoes, peppers, sugarcane, strawberries, melons, citrus, peaches, blueberries, and any other crop) on a nationally available basis against losses due to a frost or cold weather event. 
(B)Research and developmentResearch and development under subparagraph (A) shall— (i)evaluate the effectiveness of risk management tools, such as the use of an index, with respect to low frequency and catastrophic loss weather events; and 
(ii)result in a policy that provides protection for at least 1 of the following: (I)Production loss. 
(II)Revenue loss. (C)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes— 
(i)the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (A); and (ii)any recommendations with respect to those results.. 
(f)Study of inclusion of certain oilseed crops under double and rotational cropping policiesSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: (25)Double cropping and rotational cropping of certain oilseed crops (A)Definition of covered oilseed cropsIn this paragraph, the term covered oilseed crops means rapeseed, canola, camelina, and other oilseed crops, as determined by the Corporation. 
(B)Research and developmentThe Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, with respect to insurance policies for covered oilseed crops under double cropping and rotational cropping practices. (C)RequirementsThe research and development carried out pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be conducted in consultation with stakeholders to evaluate— 
(i)the factors impacting availability and cost of crop insurance when incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies; and (ii)the potential risk management benefits associated with incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies, specifically with respect to winter-planted covered oilseed crops, including risk management benefits to soil health, biodiversity, and the profitability of farming operations. 
(D)EmphasisIn awarding contracts under subparagraph (B), the Corporation may give priority to awarding contracts to qualified persons that— (i)have previous research experience with covered oilseed crops; and 
(ii)have access to a facility with the capacity to carry out the applicable research. (E)ReportNot later than 13 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes— 
(i)the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (B); and (ii)any recommendations with respect to those results.. 
(g)Harvest incentivesSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: (26)Harvest incentives (A)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding harvest incentives for policies that provide coverage against losses of revenue. 
(B)Availability of policyNotwithstanding the last sentence of section 508(a)(1), and section 508(a)(2), not later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall make available a policy described in subparagraph (A) if the requirements of section 508(h) are met. (C)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes— 
(i)the results of the research carried out under subparagraph (A); and (ii)a description of the policies made available under this paragraph.. 
(h)Prevented plantingSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: (27)Prevented planting (A)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding prevented planting coverage for insurance policies for specialty crops that are not planted on a perennial basis. 
(B)ReportNot later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes— (i)the results of the research carried out under subparagraph (A); and 
(ii)any recommendations with respect to those results.. (i)Policy for swine producers for catastrophic eventsSection 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1522(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(28)Policy for swine producers for catastrophic events 
(A)In generalFor purposes of updating any conclusions contained in the final report for the study on swine catastrophic disease published by the Risk Management Agency in 2015, the Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, regarding a policy to insure swine producers with respect to financial losses due to a catastrophic event. (B)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (A). .

--- Sec. 11015. Report on Standard Reinsurance Agreement ---
11015.Report on Standard Reinsurance Agreement 
(a)In generalNot later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on the Standard Reinsurance Agreement that includes an analysis of any modifications to such Agreement that are necessary to expand the availability of policies and plans of insurance that meet the risk management needs of agricultural producers, States, regions, and commodities. (b)ContentsThe analysis required under subsection (a) shall— 
(1)take into account the requirements under section 508(k)(8)(F) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(k)(8)(F)) related to budget neutrality of the Standard Reinsurance Agreement; and (2)include an analysis of— 
(A)any benefit related to establishing— (i)at least one additional reinsurance fund for States that have experienced consistently high loss ratios; and 
(ii)at least one additional reinsurance fund to provide alternative risk-sharing terms for approved insurance providers that sell insurance contracts offering area plan coverage; (B)with respect to any funds reimbursed for administrative and operating costs under section 507(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1507(c)), the best method for ensuring that approved insurance providers obligate such funds for— 
(i)the delivery of risk management tools to producers; and (ii)agent workforce assistance for producers, in an amount that is not less than the historical percentage of such reimbursement; and 
(C)with respect to each policy and plan of insurance, compensation amounts for agents that— (i)are consistent with historical norms; and 
(ii)provide a reasonable return considering workload and the critical service across programs that the agents provide. (c)ConsultationIn carrying out the analysis required under subsection (a), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall consult with— 
(1)representatives of producers— (A)from each State and region; and 
(B)with respect to each commodity; (2)representatives of agents and approved insurance providers; 
(3)the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and (4)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.

--- Sec. 11016. Hurricane insurance protection-wind index report ---
11016.Hurricane insurance protection-wind index report 
(a)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on the hurricane insurance protection-wind index that includes an analysis of any events in the 5-year period preceding the date of the enactment of this section that caused an outage of a weather radio station operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (b)ContentsThe analysis required under subsection (a) shall include— 
(1)data on events where a producer lost crop insurance coverage as a result of an outage of a weather radio station operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that occurred during the period described in subsection (a) and the cause of such outage; and (2)a contingency plan that evaluates the feasibility of obtaining data from land-grant colleges and universities (as defined in section 1404 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103)) or other third-party sources, as determined by the Secretary. 
(c)ConsultationIn carrying out the analysis required under subsection (a), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall consult with the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

--- Sec. 11017. Risk management study for lamb ---
11017.Risk management study for lamb (a)In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a study that includes an analysis of any modifications to existing livestock protection and risk management programs that may enhance risk management protection to domestic lamb producers. 
(b)ContentIn conducting the study under this section, the Secretary shall take into account the various factors affecting risk management, including— (1)market access; 
(2)sources of feed; (3)costs of, and fluctuation of costs of, feed; 
(4)imports; (5)consumer demand and trends; 
(6)labor costs; and (7)availability and accuracy of market data. 
(c)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on the findings of the study under this section. (d)DefinitionIn this section, the term existing livestock protection and risk management programs includes— 
(1)dairy margin coverage; (2)livestock risk protection; and 
(3)any other program designed to protect producers from market volatility, as determined by the Secretary.

--- Sec. 11018. Study on livestock risk protection policy with respect to producers of feeder cattle affected by adverse weather events ---
11018.Study on livestock risk protection policy with respect to producers of feeder cattle affected by adverse weather events (a)In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a study on potential modifications to the livestock risk protection policy offered under section 523(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1523(b)) to improve the flexibility of such policy with respect to producers of feeder cattle affected by adverse weather events, as determined by the Secretary, including drought and wildfires. 
(b)ContentsIn conducting the study under this section, the Secretary shall, with respect to producers of feeder cattle, evaluate— (1)any impact drought, wildfire, and other adverse weather events have on decisions made by such producers related to the marketing of feeder cattle; 
(2)in the case an adverse weather event occurs more than 60 days prior to the end date of a specific coverage endorsement under the livestock risk protection policy described in subsection (a), whether the requirements or endorsement structures of such policy (as in effect on the date of enactment of this section) cause such producers not to market feeder cattle so as to avoid a penalty under such policy; (3)any option to provide additional flexibility or an exemption to such producers that market feeder cattle more than 60 days prior to such end date due to an adverse weather event; and 
(4)any other recommendation to improve the effectiveness of such policy for such producers. (c)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report describing the findings of the study.
