# Title XII Miscellaneous Provisions


##### Subtitle A—Livestock and Other Animals


###### Part I—Animal Health and Production

--- Sec. 12001. Animal disease prevention and management ---
12001.Animal disease prevention and management 
(a)NADPRP program activitiesSection 10409A(b)(2) of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8308A(b)(2)) is amended— (1)in subparagraph (F)— 
(A)by striking including training additional emergency response personnel. and inserting the following: including— 
(i)training additional emergency response personnel; and; and (B)by adding at the end the following: 
 
(ii)improving animal disease traceability.; and (2)in subparagraph (I), by inserting before the period at the end the following: , including activities approved by the Secretary as of the date of the enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026. 
(b)Authorization of appropriations 
(1)National animal health laboratorySection 10409A(d)(2)(A) of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8308a(d)(2)(A)) is amended by striking 2019 through 2023 and inserting 2027 through 2031. (2)National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program; National Animal Vaccine and Veterinary Countermeasures BankSection 10409A(d)(2)(B) of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8308a(d)(2)(B)) is amended by striking 2019 through 2023 and inserting 2027 through 2031. 
(3)Administrative costsSection 10409A(d)(3)(B) of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8308a(d)(3)(B)) is amended— (A)by striking carry out the National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program under subsection (b) and inserting carry out the National Animal Health Laboratory Network under subsection (a) and the National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program under subsection (b); and 
(B)by striking 10 percent and inserting 15 percent. (4)Availability and purpose of fundingSection 10409A(e)(1) of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8308a(e)(1)) is amended by striking 2019 through 2023 and inserting 2027 through 2031.

--- Sec. 12002. Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program review and report ---
12002.Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program review and report 
(a)Program review 
(1)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall offer to enter into a contract with a covered institution under which the covered institution shall conduct a review of the Program. (2)Review elementsThe review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation of— 
(A)the effectiveness of the Program with respect to preventing and reducing the spread of tick-borne illnesses in cattle, including a review of places from which the cattle fever tick has been eradicated and the resulting economic impact; (B)with respect to cattle producers— 
(i)the benefits of the Program; and (ii)the burden of compliance with the Program; 
(C)the treatment protocols developed and implemented under the Program; and (D)the Federal and State funds allocated to support the Program for the most recent fiscal year, including the funds allocated to each research project associated with the Program. 
(b)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary and a covered institution enter into a contract pursuant to subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes— (1)the results of the review conducted pursuant to subsection (a); and 
(2)recommendations for improvements to the Program, including recommendations for reducing the burden of compliance with the Program with respect to cattle producers. (c)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)Covered institutionThe term covered institution means— (A)a land-grant college or university (as defined in section 1404(13) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103(13))); or 
(B)a non-land-grant college of agriculture (as defined in section 1404(14) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103(14))). (2)ProgramThe term Program means the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program carried out by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department in coordination with the Texas Animal Health Commission. 
(d)FundingThe Secretary shall use funds made available for the agricultural and food policy research centers under section 1419A of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3155) to carry out this section.

--- Sec. 12003. Additional training facilities for National Detector Dog Training Center ---
12003.Additional training facilities for National Detector Dog Training CenterThe Beagle Brigade Act of 2023 (Public Law 118–191) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
4.Additional training facilities 
(a)In generalIn addition to the Center established under section 2(a), the Secretary may— (1)establish other dog training facilities, which shall have the same duties as are specified in section 2(b) for the Center; and 
(2)enter into a cooperative agreement with the department of agriculture of a State (or political subdivision thereof) to establish an off-site training program for the purpose of providing training and technical assistance in the training of dogs, as described in section 2(b). (b)ConsiderationsWhen determining the need for additional training facilities under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider— 
(1)the location of international ports of entry; (2)the volume of international passengers and cargo; and 
(3)regional agricultural production trends and associated pest and disease threats..

--- Sec. 12004. Regionalization, zoning, and compartmentalization agreements ---
12004.Regionalization, zoning, and compartmentalization agreements (a)In generalSection 10405 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8304) is amended— 
(1)by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and (2)by inserting after subsection (c) the following: 
 
(d)Engagement with key export marketsTo reduce the impact of animal disease outbreaks on United States exports, the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, and the Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, is authorized to negotiate in advance, to the extent practicable, regionalization, zoning, compartmentalization, and other agreements regarding outbreaks of known animal disease threats of trade significance with the governments of countries with export markets for livestock animals or animal products from the United States.. (b)Rule of constructionNothing in this section may be construed— 
(1)to limit the ability of the United States Trade Representative to negotiate trade agreements; or (2)to require the United States Trade Representative to condition other trade agreements on the inclusion of language relating to reducing the impact of animal disease outbreaks on United States exports, as described in subsection (d) of section 10405 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8304) (as inserted by subsection (a)(2)).

--- Sec. 12005. Importation of live dogs ---
12005.Importation of live dogs 
(a)In generalThe Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 10404 (7 U.S.C. 8303) the following: 10404A.Importation of live dogs (a)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)CompensationThe term compensation means any act, consideration, or thing of value received by a person directly, including cash or noncash benefits, cost-avoidance, obtaining positive or avoiding negative publicity, an exchange of services, or maintaining a license issued under any local, State, or Federal government authority. (2)ImporterThe term importer means any person who transports or causes the transportation of a dog into the United States from a foreign country. 
(3)Import transporterThe term import transporter means any person or entity that— (A)receives an imported dog from any importer, dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government; and 
(B)receives compensation for moving such dog in commerce. (4)TransferThe term transfer means a change of ownership or control of an imported dog to another person, including by sale, adoption, exchange, or donation. 
(b)Requirements 
(1)In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), no person shall import a dog into the United States unless prior to transport to the United States, the Secretary receives electronic documentation necessary, as determined by the Secretary, to demonstrate that the dog— (A)is in good health; 
(B)has received all necessary vaccinations and internal and external parasite treatment, and demonstrated negative test results, as required by the Secretary and evidenced by a certificate that— (i)is issued by a licensed veterinarian accredited by a competent veterinary authority recognized by the Secretary; and 
(ii)is endorsed by that authority in a manner representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so; (C)is officially identified by a permanent method approved by the Secretary; and 
(D)in the case that the dog is intended for transfer— (i)is at least 6 months old; and 
(ii)is accompanied by an import permit issued by the Secretary under this Act. (2)ExceptionsThe Secretary, by regulation, shall provide an exception to any requirement under this Act in any case in which a dog is imported for purposes of transfer— 
(A)as a personal pet of United States origin returning to the United States; (B) as a United States military working dog or contracted working dog supporting a military mission or tasking; 
(C)for research purposes; (D) for veterinary treatment which is paid for by the importer, subject to the condition that the dog— 
(i)is taken directly to a veterinary facility for treatment with appropriate quarantine until the dog meets the criteria described in paragraph (1); and (ii)is then exported to its country of origin; or 
(E)in the case of a dog that is less than 6 months old, for lawful importation into the State of Hawaii from the British Isles, Australia, Guam, or New Zealand in compliance with the regulations of the State of Hawaii and the other requirements of this section, if the dog is not transported out of the State of Hawaii for transfer at less than 6 months of age. (c)Implementation and regulationsNot later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Transportation, shall promulgate such regulations as the Secretary determines necessary to implement and enforce this section, including regulations— 
(1)to facilitate electronic submission and interagency sharing of all documentation required prior to the importation of a dog into the United States under subsection (b)(1); (2)to establish any necessary post-arrival verification processes for imported dogs; 
(3)to ensure the denial of entry into the United States of any dog attempted to be imported into the United States in violation of subsection (b)(1); (4)to provide that each importer, import transporter, intermediate handler, or carrier receiving a certificate of veterinary inspection required under this section shall submit a copy of the certificate to the Secretary, who shall, upon receipt— 
(A)record and maintain the information in a centralized database; and (B)upon request by a State veterinarian, share the information with such State veterinarian not later than 3 days after such request is received by the Secretary; 
(5)to require the Secretary to annually aggregate and publicly report the data submitted under paragraph (4), including information on the countries of origin of the imported dogs and the purposes for the importation of such dogs; and (6)to determine and establish such fees for the verification of documentation and issuance of permits required under subsection (b)(1) as may be necessary to fund the implementation and enforcement of this section. 
(d)Rule of constructionNothing in subsection (c)(5) shall be construed as limiting the availability of funding made available under section 10417 to carry out this section. (e)Enforcement (1)AuthorityThe Secretary shall have the authority granted under section 10414 to enforce this section. 
(2)PenaltiesAn importer or import transporter that fails to comply with this section shall— (A)be subject to penalties under section 10414; and 
(B)provide, as the Secretary may determine, at the expense of the importer or import transporter, for— (i)the care (including appropriate veterinary care), forfeiture, quarantine, and removal from the United States of each applicable dog; and 
(ii)the return of each applicable dog to its place of export, with due care for the welfare of each applicable dog.. (b)Transition period (1)In generalDuring the transition period, regulations promulgated under section 18 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2148) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) shall continue to apply to the extent that such regulations do not conflict with section 10404A of the Animal Health Protection Act (as inserted by subsection (a)). 
(2)Transition period definedIn this subsection, the term transition period means the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which final regulations are promulgated under such section 10404A. (c)Conforming amendmentSection 18 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2148) is repealed.

--- Sec. 12006. Ensuring the free movement of livestock-derived products in interstate commerce ---
12006.Ensuring the free movement of livestock-derived products in interstate commerce 
(a)PurposeThe purpose of this section is to— (1)protect the free movement in interstate commerce of products derived from covered livestock; 
(2)encourage a national market of such products; (3)ensure that producers of covered livestock are not subject to a patchwork of State laws restricting access to a national market; and 
(4)ensure that the United States continues to uphold its international trade obligations. (b)In generalProducers of covered livestock have a Federal right to raise and market their covered livestock in interstate commerce and therefore no State or subdivision thereof may enact or enforce, directly or indirectly, a condition or standard on the production of covered livestock other than for covered livestock physically raised in such State or subdivision. 
(c)Protecting interstate commerceProducers of covered livestock have a Federal right to raise and market their covered livestock in interstate commerce and therefore no State or subdivision thereof may enact or enforce, directly or indirectly, as a condition for sale or consumption, any condition or standard of production on products derived from covered livestock not physically raised in such State or subdivision that is in addition to, or different from, the conditions or standards of production in the State in which the production occurs. (d)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)Covered livestockThe term covered livestock— (A)means any domestic animal raised for the purpose of— 
(i)slaughter for human consumption; or (ii)producing products manufactured for human consumption which are derived from the processing of milk, including fluid milk products; and 
(B)does not include domestic animals raised for the primary purpose of egg production. (2)ProductionThe term production— 
(A)means the raising (including breeding) of covered livestock; and (B)does not include the movement, harvesting, or further processing of covered livestock.

--- Sec. 12007. Report on support for livestock and poultry producers during a foreign animal disease outbreak ---
12007.Report on support for livestock and poultry producers during a foreign animal disease outbreak 
(a)In generalNot later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on the Department’s preparedness to support livestock producers and poultry growers facing economic losses in the event of an outbreak of a foreign animal disease. (b)ContentsThe report submitted under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the Department’s ability to protect producers and growers from significant economic losses as a result of a foreign animal disease— 
(1)an assessment of— (A)existing Federal programs, including catastrophic risk management tools, indemnity, direct payments, biosecurity assistance, and herd buyouts; and 
(B)the Department’s capacity to utilize such programs to provide benefits to producers and growers experiencing economic losses as a result of having to sell livestock and poultry at a reduced price, having to quarantine, treat, destroy, or dispose of animals, having to implement additional biosecurity measures or as a result of catastrophic market conditions; (2)a determination of gaps that exist in the Department’s ability to provide economic support for producers and growers suffering such losses; and 
(3)recommendations of the Secretary for modifications to Federal law (including regulations) relating to protecting producers and growers from significant economic losses related to a foreign animal disease outbreak. (c)Provision of information (1)In generalNot later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, for purposes of facilitating the preparation of the report submitted under subsection (a), the relevant Department officials described in paragraph (2) shall inform the Secretary of the information described in subsection (b). 
(2)Relevant Department officials describedThe relevant Department officials described in this paragraph are the following: (A)The Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation. 
(B)The Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services. (C)The Under Secretary for Rural Development. 
(D)The Under Secretary for Food Safety. (E)The Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. 
(F)The Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs. (G)Other officials, as specified by the Secretary.

--- Sec. 12008. Protection of greyhounds ---
12008.Protection of greyhounds 
(a)In generalThe Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 30.Protection of greyhounds (a)In generalIt shall be unlawful— 
(1)for any person to knowingly engage in commercial greyhound racing in which any greyhound is moved in interstate or foreign commerce; (2)to conduct any commercial greyhound racing or racing meeting where any form of betting or wagering on the speed or ability of greyhounds occurs; 
(3)to engage in or facilitate simulcast betting or wagering on greyhound races in interstate or foreign commerce; and (4)for any person to knowingly sell, buy, possess, train, transport, deliver, or receive any greyhound for purposes of having the greyhound participate in commercial greyhound racing. 
(b)InvestigationsThe Secretary, or any other person authorized by the Secretary, shall make such investigations as the Secretary determines necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is violating any provision of this section. The Secretary may obtain the assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in the conduct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. (c)PenaltiesAny person who violates any of paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a) shall be fined under this Act, imprisoned for not more than 7 years, or both, for each such violation. Each instance of a violation of any such paragraph shall be considered a single violation. 
(d)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)Commercial greyhound racingThe term commercial greyhound racing means any event involving the participation of greyhounds in which betting or wagering on the speed or ability of such greyhounds occurs. 
(2)SimulcastThe term simulcast means the simultaneous audio or visual transmission from one location of foreign or domestic greyhound races taking place at a different location and gambling on the results of such races.. (b)ApplicabilityThe amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to conduct occurring on or after October 1, 2027. 
(c)Rule of constructionNothing in this section, or the amendments made by this section, shall be construed— (1)to preempt any State law prohibiting gambling or protecting the welfare of animals; or 
(2)to alter, limit, or extend the relationship between the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) as it relates to horse racing and other Federal laws in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

--- Sec. 12009. Animal fighting ---
12009.Animal fightingSection 26 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2156) is amended— 
(1)by striking the section designation and all that follows through It shall be unlawful in subsection (a)(2) and inserting the following: 26.Sponsoring or exhibiting an animal in, attending, causing an individual who has not attained the age of 16 to attend, or gambling on, an animal fighting venture (a)Sponsoring or exhibiting (1)In generalIt shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an animal in an animal fighting venture. 
(2)Attending or causing an individual who has not attained the age of 16 to attendIt shall be unlawful; and (2)in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: 
 
(3)Animal venture gamblingIt shall be unlawful for any person to gamble on an animal fighting venture, including an in-person or broadcast event..

--- Sec. 12010. Placement of animals used in Federal research ---
12010.Placement of animals used in Federal researchSection 14 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2144) is amended to read as follows: 
 
14.Standards for Federal facilities 
(a)Laboratory animal facilitiesAny department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States having laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements promulgated by the Secretary under sections 13(a), (f), (g), and (h). (b)Adoption and non-Laboratory placementAny department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States operating as a Federal research facility shall, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this subsection, promulgate standards and other requirements that, in the determination of the department, agency, or instrumentality, facilitates the adoption or non-laboratory placement of any eligible animal of the facility no longer needed for research and determined to be suitable for release to an animal rescue organization, animal sanctuary, animal shelter, or individual. 
(c)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)Animal rescue organizationThe term animal rescue organization means an organization— 
(A)described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; and (B)with the purpose of rescuing animals that are unwanted, abandoned, or otherwise in need of placement and finding permanent adoptive homes for such animals. 
(2)Animal sanctuaryThe term animal sanctuary means an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code that— (A)is registered with the Secretary; 
(B)operates a place of refuge— (i)where an unwanted, displaced, or retired animal is provided care for the lifetime of such animal; and 
(ii)where an unescorted public visitation of such an animal is not permitted; (C)does not engage in commercial trade of such an animal; 
(D)does not breed such an animal; (E)does not permit direct contact between the public and such an animal; 
(F)does not allow the use of such an animal for performance or exhibition purposes; and (G)does not conduct research that pains or distresses such an animal. 
(3)Animal shelterThe term animal shelter means a facility that accepts or seizes animals to care for such animals, place such animals in a permanent adoptive home, or carry out law enforcement purposes. (4)Eligible animalThe term eligible animal means any dog, cat, nonhuman primate, guinea pig, hamster, or rabbit. 
(5)Suitable for releaseThe term suitable for release means an eligible animal that has been evaluated and has received a certificate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying that they inspected the eligible animal on a specified date that is not more than ten days before such animal is released, and when so inspected, the eligible animal appeared free of any infectious disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the eligible animal, other animals, or public health..


###### Part II—Meat and Poultry Processing and Inspection

--- Sec. 12111. Amplifying Processing of Livestock in the United States (A–PLUS) ---
12111.Amplifying Processing of Livestock in the United States (A–PLUS) (a)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall revise section 201.67 of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2024, to specify that— 
(1)market agencies may have an ownership interest in, finance, or participate in the management or operation of, a packer, so long as such packer— (A)with respect to cattle and sheep, has a cumulative slaughter capacity of less than— 
(i)2,000 animals per day; or (ii)700,000 animals per year; and 
(B)with respect to hogs, has a cumulative slaughter capacity of less than— (i)10,000 animals per day; or 
(ii)3,000,000 animals per year; and (2)market agencies that have an ownership interest in, finance, or participate in the management or operation of, a packer shall disclose to sellers of livestock the existence of such ownership interest, financial relationship, or participation. 
(b)Savings clauseNothing in this section shall be interpreted as a limitation on the authority of the Secretary to adopt or enforce rules or regulations under the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) related to the protection of producers, competition, market integrity, or the prevention of conflicts of interest.

--- Sec. 12112. Hazard analysis and critical control point guidance and resources for small and very small poultry and meat establishments ---
12112.Hazard analysis and critical control point guidance and resources for small and very small poultry and meat establishments (a)Meat establishmentsThe Federal Meat Inspection Act is amended by inserting after section 25 (21 U.S.C. 625) the following: 
 
26.Small and very small establishment guidance and resources 
(a)Studies; model plansNot later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make publicly available— (1)a list of scientific studies (which the Secretary shall update as necessary) for use by small establishments and very small establishments in developing a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan; 
(2)guidelines relating to best practices and techniques by small establishments and very small establishments in the production of raw or further processed meat and meat food products; and (3)scale-appropriate model Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plans for small establishments and very small establishments, including model plans for— 
(A)slaughter-only establishments; (B)processing-only establishments; and 
(C)slaughter and processing establishments. (b)GuidanceNot later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall publish a guidance document, after notice and an opportunity for public comment, providing information on the requirements that need to be met for small establishments and very small establishments to develop, pursuant to this Act, a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan. 
(c)Data confidentialityIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall not publish confidential business information of any meat processing establishment, including a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan of a meat processing establishment. (d)Small establishment and very small establishment definedIn this section, the terms small establishment and very small establishment have the meanings given the terms smaller establishment and very small establishment, respectively, in the final rule entitled Pathogen Reduction; Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems (61 Fed. Reg. 38806 (July 25, 1996)) (or successor regulations).. 
(b)Poultry establishmentsThe Poultry Products Inspection Act is amended by inserting after section 14 (21 U.S.C. 463) the following: 14A.Small and very small establishment guidance and resources (a)Studies; model plansNot later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make publicly available— 
(1)a list of scientific studies (which the Secretary shall update as necessary) for use by small establishments and very small establishments in developing a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan; (2)guidelines relating to best practices and techniques used by small establishments and very small establishments in the production of raw or further processed poultry products; and 
(3)scale-appropriate model Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plans for small establishments and very small establishments, including model plans for— (A)slaughter-only establishments; 
(B)processing-only establishments; and (C)slaughter and processing establishments. 
(b)GuidanceNot later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall publish a guidance document, after notice and an opportunity for public comment, providing information on the requirements that need to be met for small establishments and very small establishments to develop a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan pursuant to this Act. (c)Data confidentialityIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall not publish confidential business information of any poultry processing establishment, including a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plan of a poultry processing establishment. 
(d)Small establishment and very small establishment definedIn this section, the terms small establishment and very small establishment have the meanings given the terms smaller establishment and very small establishment, respectively, in the final rule entitled Pathogen Reduction; Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems (61 Fed. Reg. 38806 (July 25, 1996)) (or successor regulations)..

--- Sec. 12113. Outreach on cooperative interstate shipment ---
12113.Outreach on cooperative interstate shipment (a)MeatSection 501 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 683) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(k)Federal outreachIn each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031, the Secretary shall conduct outreach to States that— (1)have a State meat inspection program in effect pursuant to section 301; and 
(2)do not have a selected establishment.. (b)PoultrySection 31 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 472) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(j)Federal outreachIn each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031, the Secretary shall conduct outreach to States that— (1)have a State poultry product inspection program in effect pursuant to section 5; and 
(2)do not have a selected establishment.. (c)ReportAt the conclusion of each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031, the Secretary shall submit a report detailing the activities and results of the outreach conducted during that fiscal year under subsection (k) of section 501 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 683) and subsection (j) of section 31 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 472), as added by subsections (a) and (b), to— 
(1)the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; (2)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate; 
(3)the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and (4)the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

--- Sec. 12114. Pilot program to support custom slaughter establishments ---
12114.Pilot program to support custom slaughter establishments 
(a)In general 
(1)State operated pilot programUpon the receipt of an application from a custom exempt facility and subject to the requirements specified in subsection (c), a State department of agriculture may operate a pilot program to allow such custom facility to sell slaughtered meat and meat food products (referred to in this section as meat products) directly to consumers within the State in which the facility is located in accordance with the pilot program. (2)Lack of a state pilot programIf a State department of agriculture does not elect to operate a pilot program, the Secretary shall, upon request from a custom exempt facility in such a State, operate a pilot program administered by the Secretary for that State in accordance with this section. 
(b)Allowable number of facilities 
(1)Initial approvalExcept as provided in paragraph (2)— (A)a State department of agriculture may approve not more than 5 facilities in such State for participation in a pilot program established under subsection (a)(1); and 
(B)the Secretary may approve not more than 10 facilities to participate in all pilot programs established under subsection (a)(2). (2)Subsequent approval of facilitiesNot less than 2 years after the establishment of a pilot program, a State department of agriculture or the Secretary may, if no product produced at a facility that was initially approved under paragraph (1) for participation in such pilot program has been subject to an emergency action under subsection (f) during the 2-year period following such establishment, approve— 
(A)in the case of a State department of agriculture, not more than 5 additional facilities in the respective State; and (B)in the case of the Secretary, not more than 10 additional facilities in all States. 
(c)Pilot program requirementsA pilot program established under this section shall, at a minimum, require— (1)that meat products sold under the pilot program are— 
(A)sold directly to consumers within the State from— (i)the owner of the animals from which such meat products are derived; or 
(ii)the custom exempt facility at which the meat products were processed; (B)not eligible for re-sale; and 
(C)clearly labeled to indicate— (i)the name and address of the facility at which the meat products were processed; 
(ii)the name and address of the owner of the animals from which such meat products are derived; (iii)the location where animals from which such meat products are derived were raised; 
(iv)the date of slaughter of such animals and the period of time over which the owner raised such animals; (v)that such meat products were not subject to Federal inspection; and 
(vi)that such meat products shall not be resold; (2)that custom exempt facilities participating in the pilot program comply with— 
(A)Public Law 85–765 (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.; commonly known as the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958); (B)applicable State and local laws; 
(C)section 23(d) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 623(d)); and (D)Federal regulations pertaining to— 
(i)sanitation standards and record-keeping requirements for custom exempt facilities; and (ii)the handling and disposition of specified risk materials; 
(3)that custom exempt facilities participating in the pilot program be subject to onsite inspection by the Secretary to ensure compliance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (1) and (2); and (4)that custom exempt facilities participating in the pilot program be subject to onsite inspection at least annually by the local authority responsible for restaurant inspections or the State department of agriculture. 
(d)ImplementationNot later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue, and make publicly available, guidance for participation in a pilot program established pursuant to this section. (e)IneligibilityAn establishment subject to inspection by the Secretary under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) or operating pursuant to a State meat inspection program authorized under section 301 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 661) shall not be eligible to participate in a pilot program established pursuant to this section. 
(f)Authority for emergency actionIf the Secretary has credible evidence that a meat product produced at a custom exempt facility participating in a pilot program established pursuant to this section is adulterated, the Secretary— (1)shall, pursuant to the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), take such actions as may be necessary to address the risk to public health posed by such products; and 
(2)may terminate the participation of a custom exempt facility in a pilot program established pursuant to this section. (g)Report required (1)Reports by State departments of agriculture to SecretaryBeginning September 30, 2026, and each fiscal year thereafter until September 30, 2031, each State department of agriculture operating a pilot program pursuant to this section shall submit to the Secretary a report detailing, with respect to each such pilot program within the relevant State for the preceding fiscal year— 
(A)the number and location of persons or custom exempt facilities selling meat products under each such pilot program; (B)the outcomes of each such pilot program; 
(C)any instances in which a meat product was subject to an emergency action under subsection (f); and (D)aggregated data on the volume of meat being processed under such pilot program. 
(2)Report by Secretary to CongressNot later than 2 years after initiating a pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report detailing— (A)the information received from participating State departments of agriculture under paragraph (1); and 
(B)for any custom exempt facilities participating in a pilot program established by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a)(2)— (i)the number and location of persons or custom exempt facilities selling products pursuant to such pilot program; 
(ii)the outcomes of such pilot program; and (iii)any instances in which a meat product was subject to an emergency action under subsection (f). 
(h)Custom exempt facility definedIn this section, the term custom exempt facility means an establishment engaged in the slaughter of animals and the preparation of the carcasses, parts thereof, meat, and meat food products for commerce that is not subject to the Federal inspection requirements under title I of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.). (i)SunsetA State and the Secretary may not operate a pilot program under this section on or after September 30, 2031, and no facility that is exempt from inspection under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) pursuant to this section shall be exempt from that inspection on or after September 30, 2031.


##### Subtitle B—Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994

--- Sec. 12201. Office of Homeland Security ---
12201.Office of Homeland SecuritySection 221 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6922) is amended— (1)in subsection (d)— 
(A)in paragraph (7), by striking and at the end; (B)by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and 
(C)by inserting after paragraph (7) the following: (8)conducting annual cross-sector crisis simulation exercises related to a food-related emergency or disruption; and; and 
(2)by adding at the end the following: (f)DetaileesThe Secretary may detail employees of the Department of Agriculture to, and accept employees detailed from, the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947) to assist in carrying out the duties of the Office of Homeland Security. 
(g)Risk assessments and reports 
(1)Risk assessmentsNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026, and not less than every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct an assessment of risks and security vulnerabilities to the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector, including— (A)naturally occurring, unintentional, or intentional threats, including chemical, biological, cybersecurity, or bioterrorism attacks; 
(B)influence of state-owned enterprise; (C)control of and access to agricultural data; 
(D)foreign acquisition of intellectual property, agricultural assets, and land; (E)agricultural input shortages and dependence on foreign-sourced inputs; 
(F)supply chain and trade disruptions; (G)science and technology cooperation; 
(H)unequal investments in research, development, and commercialization; (I)incongruent regulatory policies; and 
(J)any other vulnerabilities identified by the Secretary. (2)Briefing and report (A)In generalNot later than 180 days after the completion of a risk assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide a briefing on the results of the risk assessment and submit to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report that includes— 
(i)an assessment of any gaps or limitations in national security efforts related to the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector; (ii)any actions taken by the Secretary to address any gaps or limitations identified under clause (i), including through interagency coordination, threat information sharing, and stakeholder outreach; 
(iii)any recommendations for administrative, regulatory, or legislative actions that can be taken to reduce any gaps or limitations identified under clause (i), including— (I)recommendations to reduce the dependence on foreign-source inputs necessary for the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector; and 
(II)recommendations to address the cybersecurity threats to, and security vulnerabilities in, the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector; and (iv)resources the Secretary requires to address current and future national security vulnerabilities related to the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector. 
(B)Exemption from Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports ActA report required under subparagraph (A) shall be exempt from the requirements of the Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act (subtitle D of title VII of Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 3677)..

--- Sec. 12202. Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement ---
12202.Office of Partnerships and Public EngagementSection 226B(f)(3)(B) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6934(f)(3)(B)) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12203. Burden of proof for national appeals division hearings ---
12203.Burden of proof for national appeals division hearingsSection 277(c)(4) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6997(c)(4)) is amended to read as follows: (4)Burden of proofThe agency shall bear the burden of proving by substantial evidence that the adverse decision of the agency was valid. .

--- Sec. 12204. Termination of authority ---
12204.Termination of authoritySection 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (11)The authority of the Secretary to carry out the amendments made to this title by the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026..

--- Sec. 12205. Functions of the Office of Tribal Relations ---
12205.Functions of the Office of Tribal RelationsSection 309 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6921) is amended— (1)in subsection (a)— 
(A)by striking shall advise and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting shall—; and (B)by adding at the end the following: 
 
(1)advise the Secretary on policies related to Indian tribes; (2)oversee— 
(A)each self-determination contract (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) entered into between the Secretary and a tribal organization; and (B)each self-governance compact (as defined in section 401 of such Act (25 U.S.C. 5361)) entered into between the Secretary and an Indian tribe; and 
(3)carry out such other functions as the Secretary considers appropriate.; and (2)in subsection (b)(1), by striking this subsection and inserting this section.


##### Subtitle C—National Security

--- Sec. 12301. Agricultural foreign investment disclosure improvements ---
12301.Agricultural foreign investment disclosure improvements 
(a)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)AFIDAThe term AFIDA means the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). 
(2)FPAC–BCThe term FPAC–BC means the Farm Production and Conservation Business Center of the Department of Agriculture. (b)MOU with CFIUSNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into 1 or more memoranda of understanding with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States under which the Secretary shall provide the Committee with all relevant information relating to reports on foreign ownership of United States agricultural land submitted to the Secretary under section 2 of AFIDA (7 U.S.C. 3501), including information on— 
(1)each report submitted to the Secretary; and (2)with respect to each such report, the identity of the foreign persons included in the report and the date of submission. 
(c)AFIDA handbook updates 
(1)First updateNot later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall— (A)update the most recent version of the Farm Service Agency handbook titled Foreign Investment Disclosure as determined necessary by the Secretary for the effective implementation of AFIDA; and 
(B)incorporate in such update the recommendations made by the report of the Government Accountability Office titled Foreign Investments in U.S. Agricultural Land: Enhancing Efforts to Collect, Track, and Share Key Information Could Better Identify National Security Risks and dated January 18, 2024. (2)Subsequent updatesAfter updating the handbook described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) under that paragraph, the Secretary shall carry out an update of that handbook every 10 years thereafter, including by incorporating any recommendations of the Government Accountability Office. 
(d)Civil penaltiesSection 3 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3502) is amended— (1)by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); 
(2)by striking the section designation and heading and all that follows through Any such civil penalty shall be recoverable and inserting the following: 3.Civil penalties (a)In generalA person shall be subject to a civil penalty imposed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person— 
(1)has failed to submit a report in accordance with the provisions of section 2; or (2)has knowingly submitted a report under section 2 that— 
(A)does not contain all the information required to be in such report; or (B)contains information that is misleading or false. 
(b)Civil actionAny civil penalty imposed by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall be recoverable; and (3)in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)— 
(A)by striking the subsection designation and all that follows through The amount and inserting the following: (c)Amount of penaltyThe amount; 
(B)by striking of this section; and (C)by striking shall not exceed 25 percent and inserting for violations under subsection (a)(1) shall not exceed 25 percent, and for violations under subsection (a)(2) shall be not less than 5 percent, but not more than 25 percent,. 
(e)Public disclosure of enforcement actionsSection 3 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3502) (as amended by subsection (b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (d)Public disclosure of enforcement actionsThe Secretary shall publicly disclose the name of each person who paid to the Secretary a civil penalty imposed under subsection (a), including, if applicable, after the completion of an appeal of a civil penalty.. 
(f)Publication of reporting requirementsSection 3 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3502) (as amended by subsection (c)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (e)OutreachUsing existing resources and efforts to the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall carry out a nationwide outreach program directed primarily toward landlords, operators, owners, persons, producers, and tenants (as those terms are defined in section 718.2 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026)) of agricultural land and county property appraiser offices, land appraisal companies, and real estate auction companies to increase public awareness and provide education regarding the reporting requirements under this Act..

--- Sec. 12302. Report on agricultural land purchasing activities in the United States by countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism and certain other countries ---
12302.Report on agricultural land purchasing activities in the United States by countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism and certain other countries 
(a)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)Agricultural landThe term agricultural land has the meaning given the term in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508). 
(2)Appropriate committees of CongressThe term appropriate committees of Congress means— (A)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate; 
(B)the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; (C)the Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; 
(D)the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; (E)the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and 
(F)the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives. (3)Covered foreign countryThe term covered foreign country means a foreign country of concern (as defined in section 10638 of the CHIPS Act of 2022 (42 U.S.C. 19237)). 
(4)Covered foreign personThe term covered foreign person means a foreign person (as defined in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508)) that is a citizen of, or headquartered in, as applicable, a covered foreign country. (5)StateThe term State has the meaning given the term in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508). 
(6)State sponsor of terrorismThe term state sponsor of terrorism means a country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism, for purposes of— (A)section 1754(c)(1)(A)(i) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4813(c)(1)(A)(i)); 
(B)section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371); (C)section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780(d)); or 
(D)any other provision of law. (b)Report (1)In generalNot later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the head of any other appropriate Federal agency, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the national security risks of the purchase and management of agricultural land by covered foreign persons. 
(2)ContentsA report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following with respect to the year covered by the report: (A)A description of— 
(i)the number of acres of agricultural land owned, leased, or managed by covered foreign persons, organized by State; and (ii)for each State, the percentage of land owned or managed by covered foreign persons compared to the total acreage of the State. 
(B)An analysis of the possible threat to food security, food safety, biosecurity, or environmental protection due to the ownership of agricultural land by each covered foreign country through covered foreign persons. (C)An analysis of the annual and total cost of support for agricultural land owned by covered foreign persons through farm programs administered by the Farm Service Agency. 
(D)An analysis of the use of agricultural land for industrial espionage or intellectual property transfer by covered foreign persons. (E)An analysis of the potential use by covered foreign persons of agricultural land in close proximity to manufacturing facilities, water sources, and other critical infrastructure to monitor, interrupt, or disrupt activities critical to the national and economic security of the United States. 
(F)An analysis of other threats to the agricultural industry or national security of the United States due to the ownership of agricultural land by covered foreign persons. (3)Unclassified formA report submitted under this subsection shall— 
(A)be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex; and (B)be consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.

--- Sec. 12303. Investigative actions ---
12303.Investigative actions 
(a)Investigative actionsSection 4 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3503) is amended to read as follows: 4.Investigative actions (a)In generalThe Secretary shall appoint an employee in the Senior Executive Service (as described in section 3131 of title 5, United States Code) of the Department of Agriculture to serve as Chief of Operations of Investigative Actions (referred to in this section as the Chief of Operations), who shall hire, appoint, and maintain additional employees to monitor compliance with the provisions of this Act. 
(b)Chief of OperationsThe Chief of Operations may serve in such position simultaneously with a concurrent position within the Department of Agriculture. (c)SecurityThe Secretary shall— 
(1)provide classified storage, meeting, and other spaces, as necessary, for personnel of the Chief of Operations; and (2)assist such personnel in obtaining security clearances. 
(d)DutiesThe Chief of Operations shall— (1)monitor compliance with this Act; 
(2)refer noncompliance with this Act to the Secretary, the Farm Service Agency, and any other appropriate authority; (3)conduct investigations, in coordination with the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of the Treasury, the National Security Council, and State and local law enforcement agencies, on malign efforts— 
(A)to steal agricultural knowledge and technology; or (B)to disrupt the United States agricultural base; 
(4)conduct an annual audit of the database developed under section 12304(b) of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026; (5)seek to enter into memoranda of agreement and memoranda of understanding with the Federal agencies described in paragraph (3)— 
(A)to ensure compliance with this Act; and (B)to prevent the malign efforts described in that paragraph; 
(6)refer to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States transactions that— (A)raise potential national security concerns; and 
(B)result in agricultural land acquisition by a foreign person that is a citizen of, or headquartered in, as applicable, a foreign entity of concern; and (7)publish annual reports that summarize the information contained in every report received by the Secretary under section 2 during the period covered by the report. 
(e)AdministrationThe Chief of Operations shall report to— (1)the Secretary; or 
(2)if delegated by the Secretary, to— (A)the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency; or 
(B)the Director of the Department of Agriculture Office of Homeland Security.. (b)Definition of foreign entity of concernSection 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508) is amended— 
(1)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking For purposes of this Act— and inserting In this Act:; (2)in each of paragraphs (1) through (6)— 
(A)by striking the term and inserting The term; and (B)by inserting a paragraph heading, the text of which comprises the term defined in that paragraph; 
(3)in each of paragraphs (1) through (4), by striking the semicolon and inserting a period; (4)in paragraph (5), by striking ; and and inserting a period; 
(5)by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as paragraphs (3), (4), (6), (7), and (8), respectively; (6)by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
 
(2)Foreign entity of concernThe term foreign entity of concern has the meaning given the term in section 9901 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (15 U.S.C. 4651).; and (7)by inserting after paragraph (4) (as so redesignated) the following: 
 
(5)Malign effortThe term malign effort means any hostile effort undertaken by, at the direction of, on behalf of, or with the substantial support of the government of a foreign entity of concern..

--- Sec. 12304. Digitization and consolidation of foreign land ownership data collection and publication ---
12304.Digitization and consolidation of foreign land ownership data collection and publication (a)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)Agricultural landThe term agricultural land has the meaning given the term in section 781.2 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act). (2)DatabaseThe term database means the database developed under subsection (c). 
(3)Foreign personThe term foreign person has the meaning given the term in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508). (b)DatabaseNot later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a database of agricultural land owned by foreign persons, using data that are collected pursuant to the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). 
(c)ContentsEach entry in the database for each registration or updated registration of agricultural land owned or leased by a foreign person shall include pertinent information, as determined by the Secretary, in the applicable filing, except it shall not publicly disclose the name of the filer and the purchase or lease price of such transaction for a period of at least 30 days following such filing. (d)AuditNot later than 180 days after the database is operational, and annually thereafter, the Chief of Operations for Investigative Actions appointed under section 4 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (as amended by section 12303(a)) shall— 
(1)conduct an audit of the database; and (2)submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report— 
(A)evaluating the accuracy of the database; and (B)describing recommendations for improving compliance with the reporting required under the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). 
(e)RepealSection 773 of division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117–328) is repealed.

--- Sec. 12305. CFIUS consideration of certain agricultural land transactions ---
12305.CFIUS consideration of certain agricultural land transactions (a)Inclusion of the Secretary of Agriculture on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United StatesSection 721(k) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(k)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(8)Inclusion of the Secretary of AgricultureThe Secretary of Agriculture shall be a member of the Committee with respect to a covered transaction that involves— (A)agricultural land; 
(B)agriculture biotechnology; or (C)the agriculture industry, including agricultural transportation, storage, and processing.. 
(b)Consideration of certain agricultural land transactionsSection 721(b)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (I)Consideration of certain agricultural land transactions (i)In generalAfter receiving notification from the Secretary of Agriculture of a reportable agricultural land transaction, the Committee shall determine— 
(I)whether the transaction is a covered transaction; and (II)if the Committee determines that the transaction is a covered transaction, whether the Committee should initiate a review pursuant to subparagraph (D), or take another action authorized under this section, with respect to the reportable agricultural land transaction. 
(ii)Reportable agricultural land transactionIn this subparagraph, the term reportable agricultural land transaction means a transaction— (I)that the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe is a covered transaction, based on information from or in cooperation with the intelligence community; 
(II)that involves the acquisition of an interest in agricultural land by a foreign person of the People’s Republic of China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran; and (III)with respect to which a person is required to submit a report to the Secretary of Agriculture under section 2(a) of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978. 
(iii)SunsetThe requirements under this subparagraph shall terminate, with respect to a foreign person of the respective foreign country, on the date that the People’s Republic of China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran, as the case may be, is removed from the list of foreign adversaries in section 791.4 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations..

--- Sec. 12306. Prohibition on purchase of agricultural land by foreign adversaries and state sponsors of terrorism ---
12306.Prohibition on purchase of agricultural land by foreign adversaries and state sponsors of terrorismNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the President shall direct the heads of the Federal departments and agencies to promulgate rules and regulations to prohibit the purchase of agricultural land located in the United States by a foreign adversary, a state sponsor of terrorism, any agent or instrumentality of a foreign adversary or a state sponsor of terrorism, or any person owned or controlled by, or affiliated with, a foreign adversary or a state sponsor of terrorism. For purposes of this section— 
(1)the term agricultural land has the meaning given the term in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3508). (2)the term foreign adversary means any foreign government or foreign nongovernment person engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or security and safety of United States persons; 
(3)the term state sponsor of terrorism means a country the government of which the Secretary of State determines has repeatedly provided support for international terrorism pursuant to— (A)section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4318(c)(1)(A)); 
(B)section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371); (C)section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780); or 
(D)any other provision of law; and (4)the term United States means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


##### Subtitle D—Other Miscellaneous Provisions

--- Sec. 12401. Commission on Farm Transitions—Needs for 2050 ---
12401.Commission on Farm Transitions—Needs for 2050Section 12609 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–334; 132 Stat. 5009) is amended— (1)in subsection (a), by striking There is established and inserting Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026, the Secretary shall establish; 
(2)in subsection (b)— (A)in the subsection heading, by inserting and recommendations after Study; 
(B)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting , and make recommendations relating to, after study on; (C)in paragraph (1)— 
(i)in subparagraph (B), by inserting and timely after affordable; and (ii)by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the following: 
 
(D)apprenticeships, mentoring programs, business training, and technical assistance programs;; (D)in paragraph (3)— 
(i)in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking existing and new Federal tax policies and inserting existing and new State and Federal policies, including tax policies; and (ii)in subparagraph (A), by inserting or impede after facilitate; 
(E)in paragraph (4), by striking and at the end; (F)in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and 
(G)by adding at the end the following: (6)heirs’ property and succession of agricultural land; 
(7)any unique barriers faced by historically underserved and women farmers and ranchers in the ability to transfer, inherit, or purchase agricultural assets, including land; and (8)leasing and ownership trends, including leasing and ownership trends by foreign persons or entities.; 
(3)in subsection (f), by striking 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act and inserting 2 years after the date of enactment of the Farm, Food, and National Security Act of 2026; (4)by amending subsection (l) to read as follows: 
 
(l)Federal advisory committeesSections 1008 and 1013 of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to the Commission or any proceeding of the Commission.; and (5)in subsection (m), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12402. Report on personnel ---
12402.Report on personnelSection 12506 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–334) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12403. Improvements to United States Drought Monitor ---
12403.Improvements to United States Drought MonitorSection 12512(d)(2) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 5856(d)(2)) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12404. Reports on land access and farmland ownership data collection ---
12404.Reports on land access and farmland ownership data collectionSection 12607 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 2204i) is amended— (1)in subsection (a)— 
(A)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting and not less frequently than once every 2 years thereafter, before the Secretary of Agriculture; (B)in paragraph (2), by striking and at the end; 
(C)in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and (D)by adding at the end the following: 
 
(4)a catalog of existing Federal, State, or private programs that facilitate access to land, capital, and markets, including programs providing assistance relating to— (A)acquiring of real property (including air rights, water rights, and other interests therein), including closing costs; 
(B)subsidizing interest rates and mortgage principal amounts for intended beneficiaries; (C)providing down payment assistance to decrease farm mortgages; 
(D)securing clear title on heirs’ property farmland; (E)conducting surveys and assessments of agricultural land; 
(F)improving or remediating land, water, and soil; (G)constructing or repairing infrastructure; 
(H)supporting land use planning; (I)acquiring legal or financial planning assistance; 
(J)carrying out Tribal consultation; (K)supporting acquisition of a Department of Agriculture farm number; and 
(L)any other activities as determined by the Secretary.; and (2)in subsection (c), by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12405. Increasing transparency regarding detention of imported plants ---
12405.Increasing transparency regarding detention of imported plants 
(a)In generalNot later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall issue guidance to clarify the process by which an importer of plants that have been denied entry into the United States and detained under the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.) may obtain additional information on such denial and detention. (b)Information providedThe process referred to in subsection (a) shall ensure that the Secretary shall provide to an importer described in such subsection, upon the detention of any plants of such importer, the following information: 
(1)The specific reasons for which the detention of the plants was initiated, including the date on which the plants were presented to the Secretary for examination. (2)The anticipated length of the detention of such plants. 
(3)The nature of the tests or inquiries to be conducted on the plants, which the importer shall be able to replicate. (4)The nature of any information that, if supplied to the Secretary, would accelerate the disposition of the detention.

--- Sec. 12406. Enhancement of pet protections ---
12406.Enhancement of pet protections 
(a)ReportNot later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act (or later, if the Secretary determines appropriate after taking into consideration any ongoing programmatic review of the Animal Care program of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report with respect to companion animals that— (1)evaluates the enforcement of standards under, and requirements of, the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq.) by the Secretary for both effectiveness and efficiency; 
(2)evaluates the efforts by the Secretary to educate and advise dealers of all standards under, and requirements of, such Act; (3)evaluates the capacity of the Secretary to enforce the standards established by such Act; 
(4)makes recommendations for the improvement of— (A)all standards (including animal welfare standards) under, and requirements of, such Act; and 
(B)education efforts of the Secretary with respect to such standards and requirements; and (5)considers the impact and associated costs of any recommended improvements or amendments to the standards under, and requirements of, such Act. 
(b)Veterinary care 
(1)In generalSection 13(a)(2)(A) of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2143(a)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting (which shall include visual dental examinations, whenever practicable) after adequate veterinary care. (2)Technical amendmentSection 13 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2143) is amended by redesignating the second subsection (f) (prohibiting delivery of certain animals without certificate of inspection), subsection (g), and subsection (h) as subsections (g) through (i), respectively.

--- Sec. 12407. Protecting animals with shelter ---
12407.Protecting animals with shelterSection 12502(b)(8) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–334) is amended by striking 2023 and inserting 2031.

--- Sec. 12408. Report on available assistance to agricultural producers in the State of Texas that have suffered economic losses due to the failure of Mexico to deliver water ---
12408.Report on available assistance to agricultural producers in the State of Texas that have suffered economic losses due to the failure of Mexico to deliver waterNot later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that lists all existing authorities of the Secretary and programs within the Department that are or could be made available to provide assistance to agricultural producers in the State of Texas that have suffered economic losses due to the failure of Mexico to deliver water to the United States in accordance with the Treaty Relating to the Utilization of Waters of the Colorado and Tijuana Rivers and of the Rio Grande signed at Washington on February 3, 1944, and the Supplementary Protocol signed at Washington November 14, 1944.

--- Sec. 12409. Qualified renewable biomass ---
12409.Qualified renewable biomass 
(a)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)Agency actionThe term agency action has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. 
(2)Qualified renewable biomass 
(A)In generalThe term qualified renewable biomass means— (i)forest products manufacturing bioenergy feedstocks, including from— 
(I)forest products manufacturing residuals, including spent pulping liquors, pulping by-products, bark, woody manufacturing residuals, paper recycling residuals, wastewater and process water treatment plant residuals, and anaerobic digester biogas; (II)harvest residues, including portions of harvested trees that are too small or of too poor quality to be utilized for wood products or paper products; 
(III)downed wood from extreme weather events and natural disasters, nonhazardous landscape or right-of-way trimmings and municipal trimmings, and plant material removed for purposes of invasive or noxious plant species control; (IV)biowaste, including landfill gas; and 
(V)non-chemically treated used wood products, such as crates or pallets; and (ii)forest biomass derived from residues created as a by-product of timber harvesting, including treetops, tree limbs, and bark, but excluding stumps, roots, and round wood suitable for industrial purposes. 
(B)ExclusionSuch term does not include paper of a type that is commonly recycled. (b)In general (1)Consideration as renewable energy sourceWith respect to any agency action of the Department related to qualified renewable biomass, the Secretary shall consider qualified renewable biomass to be a renewable energy source and assign it (and a facility, to the extent it uses qualified renewable biomass as fuel) a greenhouse gas emission rate, and a carbon intensity, of not greater than zero, if the use of such qualified renewable biomass as fuel does not cause the conversion of forests to non-forest use. 
(2)PetitionsNot later than 1 year after receiving a petition requesting a change to a rule, policy, or program of the Department in order to comply with the requirements of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take such action as may be necessary to comply with such requirements with respect to such rule, policy, or program. (c)Guidance (1)EstablishmentNot later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish guidance for purposes of carrying out subsection (b). 
(2)ModificationThe Secretary may periodically update the guidance established under paragraph (1) as the Secretary may determine necessary. (3)ConsultationIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with— 
(A)the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; (B)the Secretary of Energy; and 
(C)any other relevant entities, as determined by the Secretary.

--- Sec. 12410. Whole milk under the school breakfast program ---
12410.Whole milk under the school breakfast programSection 9(a)(2) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(2)) is amended— 
(1)in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking Act— and inserting Act and breakfasts served by schools participating in the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773)—; (2)in subparagraph (C), by inserting or the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773) after Act; and 
(3)in subparagraph (D), by striking section 210.10 and inserting sections 210.10 and 220.8.

--- Sec. 12411. Spotted lanternfly awareness campaign ---
12411.Spotted lanternfly awareness campaign (a)In generalThe Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out a national campaign to increase the awareness and knowledge of the public with respect to spotted lanternflies. 
(b)Required activitiesIn carrying out the national campaign under this section, the Secretary shall— (1)place public service announcements on television, radio, and billboards in areas of high incidence of spotted lanternflies that— 
(A)inform individuals of the fact that spotted lanternflies are an invasive pest that threaten local agriculture; and (B)encourage individuals to kill any spotted lanternflies that such individuals encounter; and 
(2)use such other awareness tools as the Secretary determines appropriate to provide the information described in paragraph (1).

--- Sec. 12412. Rio Grande Valley agricultural water interagency working group ---
12412.Rio Grande Valley agricultural water interagency working group (a)EstablishmentThe Secretary, in coordination with the heads of the agencies described in subsection (c), shall establish an interagency working group to coordinate a whole-of-government strategy to protect the economic interests of United States agricultural producers impacted by water deliveries under the 1944 Water Treaty. 
(b)DutiesThe Working Group shall— (1)analyze the economic impact of water delivery deficits under the 1944 Water Treaty on the United States agricultural sector in the area affected by such water delivery deficits, including specific assessments of damages to perennial crops; 
(2)develop and implement a multi-agency strategy to— (A)secure annual and predictable water deliveries in accordance with the 1944 Water Treaty through the coordinated use of Federal diplomatic and operational authorities; 
(B)enhance the resilience of the domestic agricultural water supply through improved conservation and infrastructure; (C)assess trade-related mechanisms available to address agricultural supply chain disruptions caused by such water delivery deficits; 
(D)ensure that water resources and infrastructure in South Texas are efficiently managed and operational for the beneficial use of agricultural producers and municipal users; and (E)support Federal officials in securing annual and predictable water deliveries in accordance with the 1944 Water Treaty; 
(3)facilitate coordination among Federal agencies and with the State of Texas to align diplomatic, trade, and infrastructure efforts with the critical needs of the agricultural community in South Texas; and (4)provide a forum for public engagement and transparency regarding— 
(A)the status of water deliveries from Mexico under the 1944 Water Treaty; and (B)the findings of the Working Group and the strategy developed under paragraph (2). 
(c)CompositionThe Working Group shall be composed of— (1)the Secretary of Agriculture (who shall serve as Chair); 
(2)the Secretary of State; (3)the Secretary of the Interior; 
(4)the Commissioner of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico; (5)the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; 
(6)the United States Trade Representative; (7)the Chief of Engineers and Commanding General of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and 
(8)the Assistant to the President of the United States for National Security Affairs. (d)Meetings (1)FrequencyThe Working Group shall meet not less frequently than annually. 
(2)Public accessThe Working Group shall— (A)hold the meetings described in paragraph (1) in a manner open to the public; and 
(B)provide an opportunity for interested stakeholders, including agricultural producers and irrigation districts, to provide oral and written comments to the Working Group. (e)ReportNot later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Working Group shall submit to the Committees on Agriculture, Appropriations, Foreign Affairs, and Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, Appropriations, Energy and Natural Resources, Foreign Relations, and Finance of the Senate, a report describing— 
(1)the findings resulting from the analysis under subsection (b)(1); (2)the status of diplomatic and operational efforts to secure compliance with the annual water delivery requirements of the 1944 Water Treaty; 
(3)an assessment of potential trade or administrative actions to secure long term water reliability under treaties with Mexico; and (4)recommendations for projects, resources, and legislative authorities needed to fully implement the strategy developed under subsection (b)(2). 
(f)DefinitionsIn this section: (1)1944 Water TreatyThe term 1944 Water Treaty means the Treaty Relating to the Utilization of Waters of the Colorado and Tijuana Rivers and of the Rio Grande signed at Washington on February 3, 1944, and the Supplementary Protocol signed at Washington November 14, 1944. 
(2)Working GroupThe term Working Group means the interagency working group established under subsection (a).

--- Sec. 12413. Cost-share grants for rollover protection structures ---
12413.Cost-share grants for rollover protection structures (a)DefinitionsIn this section: 
(1)Approved rollover protection structureThe term approved rollover protection structure means a rollover protection structure that the Program Administrator determines— (A)may be installed on eligible equipment; 
(B)includes a seatbelt; and (C)meets or exceeds the rollover protection structure standards. 
(2)Eligible entityThe term eligible entity means, as determined by the Secretary— (A)an agricultural producer; and 
(B)an eligible school. (3)Eligible equipmentThe term eligible equipment means an agricultural tractor that the Program Administrator determines to be eligible for installation of an approved rollover protection structure. 
(4)Eligible schoolThe term eligible school means— (A)a vocational school that provides agricultural instruction or training; 
(B)an institution of higher education (as defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)) that provides direct, practical agricultural instruction or training; and (C)a public or private secondary school (as defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8107)) the curriculum of which includes an agricultural instruction or training component. 
(5)Program AdministratorThe term Program Administrator means the organization selected by the Secretary under subsection (c)(1)(B). (6)Rollover protection structure standardsThe term rollover protection structure standards includes the following: 
(A)The SAE J2194 and SAE J1194 standards issued by the Society of Automotive Engineers (and successor standards). (B)Any other relevant national or international rollover protection structure manufacturing or testing standards. 
(b)Cost-share grants 
(1)In generalThe Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for the cost of purchasing, transporting, and installing on eligible equipment approved rollover protection structures. (2)Limitations (A)In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), the amount of a grant under this section shall equal 70 percent of the costs of the eligible entity to purchase, transport, and install the approved rollover protection structure. 
(B)ExceptionIf, for an eligible entity that is the recipient of a grant under this section, the costs to purchase, transport, and install an approved rollover structure (as documented by the eligible entity) exceed $500, the amount of the grant shall be increased to cover an increased percentage (as determined by the Secretary) of such costs. (c)Administration (1)Program AdministratorThe Secretary shall— 
(A)seek competitive bids from nongovernmental organizations seeking to serve as the Program Administrator under this section; (B)select 1 organization from among the organizations that submit bids under subparagraph (A); and 
(C)enter into a cooperative agreement with that organization to carry out the activities described in paragraph (2). (2)DutiesThe Program Administrator shall— 
(A)identify— (i)approved rollover protection structures; and 
(ii)eligible equipment; (B)administer the application process under subsection (d); and 
(C)establish and administer a public website and phone hotline with information necessary— (i)to inform eligible entities, as described in subsection (a)(2), of the grant opportunities made available by this Act, and 
(ii)to administer the application process under subsection (d). (d)Applications (1)In generalTo apply for a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Program Administrator an application, including documentation of the cost described in subsection (b)(2)(A). 
(2)Approval or denialOn receipt of an application under paragraph (1), the Program Administrator shall— (A)determine— 
(i)whether the applicant is eligible for a grant under this section; and (ii)the amount of a grant under this section for which the applicant is eligible; and 
(B)submit to the Secretary a notification of the determinations under subparagraph (A). (e)DisbursementOn receipt of a notification under subsection (d)(2)(B), if an applicant is eligible for a grant under this section, the Secretary shall disburse to the eligible entity the amount of the grant described in subsection (d)(2)(A)(ii). 
(f)Funding 
(1)Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $725,000 for each of fiscal years 2027 through 2031. (2)AllocationOf the amounts made available to carry out this section for each fiscal year— 
(A)the Secretary shall use 70 percent of such amounts for grants under this section; and (B)the Secretary shall transfer to the Program Administrator— 
(i)15 percent of such amounts for the promotion of, and upgrades to the website referred to in subsection (c)(2)(C); and (ii)15 percent of such amounts for the telephone hotline referred to in such subsection.

--- Sec. 12414. Report on barriers to accessing Federal programs ---
12414.Report on barriers to accessing Federal programs 
(a)ReportNot later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall— (1)submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on— 
(A)barriers to organic farms taking part in Federal programs made available under this Act; (B)what steps the Department can take without congressional action to remove such barriers; and 
(C)what congressional action is needed to remove barriers the Department is unable to remove; and (2)make publicly available the report described in paragraph (1). 
(b)Appropriate congressional committee definedIn this section, the term appropriate congressional committee means— (1)the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and 
(2)the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.

--- Sec. 12415. Transparency of records of commodity boards ---
12415.Transparency of records of commodity boardsSection 501 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7401) is amended— 
(1)by redesignating subsections (d) through (f) as subsections (e) through (g); (2)by inserting after subsection (c) the following: 
 
(d)Transparency of records of commodity boards 
(1)In generalFor each order issued by the Secretary under a commodity promotion law, the Secretary shall publish on the website of the Department of Agriculture the following information: (A)The reports of audits submitted by each commodity board to the Secretary for each fiscal year pursuant to section 515(g)(2). 
(B)The activities and budgets of each commodity board approved by the Secretary for each fiscal year. (C)The results of each periodic independent evaluation described in subsection (c). 
(2)Publication timelineIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall— (A)not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, publish the information described in such paragraph with respect to the 5 full fiscal years preceding such date of enactment; and 
(B)not later than 365 days after the end of any subsequent fiscal year, publish the information described in such paragraph with respect to such fiscal year.; and (3)in subsection (f)(4) (as so redesignated), by striking subsection (f) and inserting subsection (g).

--- Sec. 12416. Honey Standards and Definitions ---
12416.Honey Standards and DefinitionsSection 203(h)(6) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(h)(6)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (A)Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subparagraph, the Secretary shall initiate consultation with the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to develop a detailed and harmonized Federal definition for honey that promotes honesty and fair dealing in the interest of consumers and the honey market, and ensures consistency in labeling and enforcement under the respective authorities of each agency. 
(B)The consultation required under subparagraph (A) shall be conducted in coordination with domestic honey producer associations and land-grant colleges and universities (as defined in section 1404 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103)) with demonstrated expertise in honey authenticity, quality, and related testing. (C)The harmonized definition developed under this paragraph shall be used, as appropriate, to support enforcement under applicable Federal law administered by the Secretary, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, including laws relating to adulteration, misbranding, false or misleading labeling, import declarations, country-of-origin claims, and customs fraud. 
(D)The Secretary shall cease consultation under this paragraph if the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration otherwise publishes a standard of identity for honey under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 341)..

--- Sec. 12417. Report on assistance available to agricultural producers in Arizona for certain losses ---
12417.Report on assistance available to agricultural producers in Arizona for certain lossesNot later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that lists all existing authorities of the Secretary and programs within the Department that are or could be made available to provide assistance to agricultural producers in the State of Arizona that have suffered economic losses due to the delivery of Colorado River waters to Mexico while Mexico failed to deliver water to the United States in accordance with the Treaty Relating to the Utilization of Waters of the Colorado and Tijuana Rivers and of the Rio Grande signed at Washington on February 3, 1944, and the Supplementary Protocol signed at Washington November 14, 1944.

--- Sec. 12418. Precision agriculture satellite connectivity ---
12418.Precision agriculture satellite connectivity 
(a)ReviewThe Commission shall— (1)review the rules of the Commission relating to fixed satellite service, mobile satellite service, and earth exploration satellite service to determine if there are rule changes that the Commission could implement under existing authority to promote precision agriculture; and 
(2)if the Commission determines under paragraph (1) that there are rule changes that the Commission could implement, develop recommendations for how to implement the changes. (b)ReportNot later than 15 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the results of the review conducted under subsection (a), including any recommendations developed under paragraph (2) of such subsection. 
(c)Commission definedIn this section, the term Commission means the Federal Communications Commission.

--- Sec. 12419. Establishment of Office of Seafood in the Department of Agriculture ---
12419.Establishment of Office of Seafood in the Department of Agriculture (a)In generalSubtitle A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6912 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
224B.Office of Seafood 
(a)EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish for the Department an Office of Seafood to provide leadership, expertise, management, and advice to the Secretary of Agriculture on matters impacting the seafood industry. (b)DutiesThe Office of Seafood shall be additionally responsible for— 
(1)coordinating across the Department to ensure fishermen are integrated into Department programs; and (2)working alongside appropriate counterparts of the Department of Commerce and other Federal departments and agencies to revitalize the American seafood industry.. 
(b)Technical correctionSubtitle A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6912 et seq.), as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by redesignating section 225 (relating to the Food Access Liaison) as section 224A.

--- Sec. 12420. Department of Agriculture loans and grants for commercial fishing and fish processing businesses ---
12420.Department of Agriculture loans and grants for commercial fishing and fish processing businesses (a)Definitions of farmer and farmingSection 343(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a)) is amended— 
(1)in paragraph (1), by striking farming. and inserting farming, commercial fishing, or fish processing.; (2)in paragraph (2), by striking farming. and inserting farming, commercial fishing, and fish processing.; and 
(3)by adding at the end the following: (14)Commercial fishingThe term commercial fishing means fishing (as defined in section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802)) in which the fish harvested, either in whole or in part, are intended to enter commerce or enter commerce through sale, barter, or trade. 
(15)Commercial fishing vesselThe term commercial fishing vessel means a fishing vessel and a fish processing vessel (as those terms are defined in section 2101 of title 46, United States Code). (16)FishThe term fish has the meaning given the term in section 2101 of title 46, United States Code. 
(17)Fish processingThe term fish processing means the processing of fish for commercial use or consumption. (18)Fish processing facilityThe term fish processing facility means a facility or vessel, boat, ship, or other craft used or equipped for fish processing.. 
(b)Farm ownership loans 
(1)EligibilitySection 302(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1922(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (3)Eligibility of wild-caught fish and shellfishNotwithstanding any other provision of this Act, for purposes of direct and guaranteed farm loans under this subtitle— 
(A)the terms farmer and rancher shall include an individual or entity engaged in commercial fishing or fish processing; and (B)the terms farm and ranch shall include— 
(i)a commercial fishing vessel; and (ii)a fish processing facility.. 
(2)PurposesSection 303(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1923(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (3)Commercial fishery participants; fish processors (A)Commercial fishery participantsAn individual or entity engaged in commercial fishing may only use a direct or guaranteed loan under this subtitle for— 
(i)acquiring a commercial fishing permit; (ii)acquiring a commercial fishing vessel; and 
(iii)making capital improvements to a commercial fishing vessel. (B)Fish processorsAn individual or entity engaged in fish processing may use a direct or guaranteed loan under this subtitle for acquiring or making capital improvements to a fish processing facility.. 
(c)Farm operating loans 
(1)EligibilitySection 311(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1941(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (3)Eligibility of wild-caught fish and shellfishNotwithstanding any other provision of this Act, for purposes of direct and guaranteed farm loans under this subtitle— 
(A)the terms farmer and rancher shall include an individual or entity engaged in commercial fishing or fish processing; and (B)the terms farm and ranch shall include— 
(i)a commercial fishing vessel; and (ii)a fish processing facility.. 
(2)PurposesSection 312 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1942) is amended by adding at the end the following: (f)Commercial fishery participants; fish processors (1)Commercial fishery participantsAn individual or entity engaged in commercial fishing may only use a direct or guaranteed loan under this subtitle for the costs associated with operating and maintaining a commercial fishing vessel. 
(2)Fish processorsAn individual or entity engaged in fish processing may use a direct or guaranteed loan under this subtitle for the costs associated with operating and maintaining a fish processing facility.. (d)Implementation and coordination (1)In generalNot later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure the successful and effective integration of individuals and entities in the commercial fishing industry, including those engaged in commercial fishing or fish processing (as those terms are defined in section 343(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a))), into each program of the Department of Agriculture for which those individuals and entities are made eligible under the amendments made by this section. 
(2)Technical assistance and guidanceIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall— (A)provide outreach and technical assistance to participants in the commercial fishing industry, including through cooperative agreements and public-private and other partnerships, to promote awareness of and access to relevant programs; 
(B)provide guidance and training to relevant agency personnel of the Department, including through cooperative agreements and public-private and other partnerships, to ensure program services are effectively delivered to the commercial fishing industry; and (C)coordinate, as appropriate, with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant Federal and State agencies to implement the amendments made by this section.

--- Sec. 12421. Honey testing standards ---
12421.Honey testing standardsSection 203(h)(6) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(h)(6)) is amended by adding at the end the following: Any sampling or analytical testing relied upon by a packer, repacker, importer, distributor, or seller to substantiate that honey packed, repacked, labeled, marketed, or sold in interstate commerce in the United States, including imported honey, is honey, pure honey, or otherwise meets any claim regarding purity, floral source, geographic origin, grade, or authenticity— 
(A)shall be conducted by a laboratory or other qualified testing entity located in the United States; (B)shall be conducted using methods recognized or approved by the Secretary; and 
(C)may not be satisfied solely by a foreign certificate of analysis, foreign government certification, or testing conducted outside the United States. The Secretary may review and update methods under this paragraph in consultation with one or more land-grant colleges or universities..

--- Sec. 12422. Exemption of farm equipment from Clean Air Act emission standards ---
12422.Exemption of farm equipment from Clean Air Act emission standardsSection 213 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7547) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
 
(e)Exemption for farm equipmentThe standards under this section shall not apply to new or in-use— (1)agricultural tractors, as such term is defined in section 1928.51 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations; or 
(2)self-propelled agricultural equipment used to spray, fertilize, or harvest covered commodities, as such term is defined in section 1111(6) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9011(6))..


##### Subtitle E—United States Grain Standards Reauthorization

--- Sec. 12501. Declaration of policy ---
12501.Declaration of policySection 2(b) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 74(b)) is amended— 
(1)in paragraph (2), by striking and at the end; (2)in paragraph (3)(F), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and 
(3)by adding at the end the following: (4)that the Secretary shall prioritize the adoption of improved grain grading technology to provide for efficient, accurate, and consistent grading of grain..

--- Sec. 12502. Official inspection authority and funding ---
12502.Official inspection authority and fundingSection 7 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79) is amended— (1)in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following: 
 
(5)The Secretary may provide that domestic non-export grain loaded or unloaded into or out of a rail car, barge, truck, or other container, at an export port location, shall be inspected in the manner provided in this subsection or subsection (f), as the Secretary determines will best meet the objectives of this Act. ; (2)in subsection (g)(2), by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created; and 
(3)in subsection (j)— (A)in paragraph (1)(C), by striking fund which and inserting trust fund which; 
(B)in paragraph (3)— (i)by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created; and 
(ii)by striking credited to the fund and inserting credited to the trust fund account; and (C)in paragraph (5), by striking 2025 and inserting 2033.

--- Sec. 12503. Weighing authority ---
12503.Weighing authoritySection 7A of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79a) is amended— (1)in subsection (c)(2), by striking State agency and inserting State agency or official agency; and 
(2)in subsection (l)— (A)in paragraph (1)(C), by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created; 
(B)in paragraph (2), by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created; and (C)in paragraph (4), by striking 2025 and inserting 2033.

--- Sec. 12504. Testing of equipment ---
12504.Testing of equipmentSection 7B(a) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79b(a)) is amended by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created.

--- Sec. 12505. Limitation on administrative and supervisory costs ---
12505.Limitation on administrative and supervisory costsSection 7D of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79d) is amended— 
(1)by striking activities) and inserting activities, equipment, and development of technology); and (2)by striking 2025 and inserting 2033.

--- Sec. 12506. General authorities ---
12506.General authoritiesSection 16 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87e) is amended— (1)in subsection (e), by striking Department of Agriculture and inserting Department of Agriculture and official agencies; and 
(2)in subsection (j), by striking fund created and inserting trust fund created.

--- Sec. 12507. Registration requirements ---
12507.Registration requirementsSection 17A(e) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87f–1(e)) is amended by striking fund described and inserting trust fund described.

--- Sec. 12508. Reporting requirements ---
12508.Reporting requirementsSection 17B(e) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87f–2(e)) is amended— (1)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking The Secretary may, to the extent determined appropriate by the Secretary and inserting On December 1 of each year, the Secretary shall; 
(2)in paragraph (1), by striking and at the end; (3)by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and 
(4)by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: (2)an analysis of any and all existing deficiencies in the technology evaluation process and recommendations to advance the efficiency, accuracy, and consistency of grain grading and minimize costs imposed on the Federal Government and the grain export industry; and.

--- Sec. 12509. Funding ---
12509.FundingSection 19 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87h) is amended— (1)in subsection (a), by striking 2021 through 2025 and inserting 2026 through 2033; and 
(2)in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking other services and inserting other services (excluding grading services performed under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946).

--- Sec. 12510. Advisory committee ---
12510.Advisory committeeSection 21 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87j) is amended— 
(1)in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if the Secretary does not make a new appointment upon the completion of a term of an existing member (including such existing member’s second successive term), then such existing member shall continue to serve until such appointment is made.; and (2)in subsection (e), by striking 2025 and inserting 2033.
